Note: I wrote this in shorthand on stage while I was waiting to speak.  Therefore, there are incomplete sentences and no paragraphs.  Sorry, but just don't leave it like this.  I hope I spelled Connant right.

Anyone who has taught at Parker for 20 years like Shirley Connant is a special person.  So, what is it that makes her different from any other teacher with so prestigious a record.  I don't think anyone here will ever forget the utter fear and utter horror that swelled in them each Oct. 31 as a real live witch walked into the second grade classroom.  Every other day, excluding Oct. 31, Mrs. Connant was anything but.  Reading in the bathtub and spending a day in the Japanese TeaRoom with a classmate are experiences shared by all 2nd Graders.  But what makes Mrs. Connant different are the experiences she gives us that are not shared by other students.  I will never forget a cold, snowy day in December when whomever was supposed to pick me up at 2:50 didn't.  I was left all alone with Mrs. Connant for a half-hour after school (a long time in those days when you expected to be watching cartoons by 3:00).  But instead of just making me read a book while she did something else, Mrs. Connant said to me, "Okay, I'll teach you something that the whole class won't learn until tomorrow.  She proceeded to teach me subtraction.  So, I learned how to subtract at least 18 hours before everyone else.  But it wasn't that I just learned how to subtract, with that extra lesson after school Mrs. Connant had instilled in me an excitement about subtraction.  That extra lesson made me feel special.  Mrs. Connant had entrusted me with this ancient wisdom before anyone else.  I was so excited that I went home an practiced subtraction and came back the next day feeling appreciated and confident.  As it turned out, I wasn't even that good at subtraction; I'm still not.  Regardless I had a desire to do it.  I want to subtract things because Mrs. Connant made me feel like the most important subtracter this side of Mrs. Baily's toothless wonders.   This is what makes Mrs. Connant different.  And I'd be willing to bet that there are hundreds of people in this room who could tell a similar story of how Mrs. Connant made them feel important.  It is for this that we love you, and for this we will miss you.  And whereever you go you will surely leave a wake of some very special-feeling people.
