Foreign Language Department

	The discussion of the foreign language department was very
specific and focused mainly on three issues; first, foreign language taken
outside Parker; second, the number of languages taught, and third, the
middle school foreign language program.
	The overwhelming concern of the students is that the department
will not award credit for the foreign language classes taken outside
Parker.  This policy discourages students not only from pursuing languages
that are not offered at parker, but also from embarking on study-abroud
programs through which they might live in a country where neither French
not Spanish is spoken.  In our discussion we considered various ways that
the school could monitor a student's work in an outside language course.
A proficiency exam could be given to the student upon completion of
his/her course and then graded (perhaps this would have to be done by an
outside party, if no one at Parker speaks the particular language).
Credit would be awarded accordingly., based on the student's place of
study.  Letters from the student's teacher about the content of the course
and ongoing communication about the student's worki in the course could
help Parker monitor the student's progress.
	Another solution to the problem of outside language courses was to
add more languages to Parker's own curriculum.  Yet while many Parker
students seem enthusiastic about adding more foreign languages to the
curriculum, our group also recognized that overall participation in
foreign language classes seems to be poorer than in previous years.
Obvioiusly, there is group of people who are anxious to learn languages
other than Spanish, Latin, and French, and accpeting credit for classes
taken outside Parker is one way to satiate this group. Another, perhaps
more convenient, way to give students a chance to study more languages is
to open Paker's evening courses in foreign languages to high school
students.
	The students in our discussion group were extremely concerned
about the lack of high school participation in French and Latin due to the
teaching of Spanish in the middle school.  The majority of the group
thought that French should also be offered in the middle school, giving
students the choice between the two.  Although non of us have ever
attempted to make a school schedule, we expected that the language courses
of each grade in middle school could be scheduled at the same time so that
the students taking French would go to their class at the smae time as the
students taking Spanish go to theirs, and therefore not create a great
scheduling conflict.  If offereing French in the middle school would be
impossible, another idea, which would raise awareness about French and
therefore hopefully promote more students to take French in high school,
is to teach French culture in middle school.
	The remainder of the concerns with the foreign language department
were small changes that students felt should be made regarding the way
classes are taught.  These changes include: a more structured curriculum
in level I & II courses; and field tripsto French and Spanish speaking
areas in the city; more speaking excercises in Spanish and French classes;
and the curriculum in the level V courses.  People in our group felt that
the level V courses were not focused enough; the need to have a specific
area of study, whether it be literature or the history of a specific
country.  One idea was to have the courses be a study of French/Spanish
literature and film.
