
        Parker philosophy is about encouraging individuals to experiment
with the world around them, to compete only with themselves while being
involved in a working, caring community, and to base success on learning
HOW [italics on these please, Baker; I'm a moron] to learn, not
neccessarily WHAT they learn. It is about developing caring, devoted, and
compassionate citizens of the world. It is about perfecting the journey,
not the destination. It is about balancing tradition with progression.
Often our practical interpretations of these ideals succeed, but many times
they do not.
        When the school has succeeded it has been from continuing
time-tested educational traditions. Small class sizes enable students to
interact with their teachers and peers on a more intimate level. Hands-on
activities, field-trips, community service requirements, and discussions
rather than lectures provide for real learning experiences. The absense of
an honor roll and ranking system, and the disclosing of test scores help
students to compete with their own abilities and not those of others, and
hpefully to improve on them.
        When the school has failed to reach (or at least reach for) its
ideals, it has been from authoriatarianism and the lack of open
discussions. With the gradual introduction of text books and the shortening
of some class lengths, the "learning by doing" attitude has flatered in the
face of nation-wide comparisons and "standards." Interaction between
teachers, administrators, parents, and students of all ages has been
hindered with the introduction of a block schedule. When students feel they
are being taught mindless facts, and not the art of learning itself, they
become unmotivated, and the lack of a clear-cut disciplinary system adds to
the problem. These and other similar changes and circumstances have been
due to the absense of community involvement in the decision-making process.
        The Parker philosphy is perhaps the most cherished and important
aspect of the school. When it is used correctly by many, open-minded
individuals emerge from the experience. When it is twisted and
misinterpreted by a small group of people, bitter indivuals develop.
Currently we are somewhere in between, wavering day to day, and although
perfection is perhaps just a dream, improvement is surely not.

