Philosophy of Parker

Parker philosophy is about encouraging individuals to experiment
with the world around them, to compete only with themselves while being
involved in a working, caring community, and to base success on learning
HOW [italics on these please, Baker; I'm a moron] to learn, not
neccessarily WHAT they learn. It is about developing caring, devoted, and
compassionate citizens of the world. It is about perfecting the journey,
not the destination. It is about balancing tradition with progression.
Often our practical interpretations of these ideals succeed, but many
times
they do not.
        When the school has succeeded it has been from continuing
time-tested educational traditions. Small class sizes enable students to
interact with their teachers and peers on a more intimate level. Hands-on
activities, field-trips, community service requirements, and discussions
rather than lectures provide for real learning experiences. The absense of
an honor roll and ranking system, and the disclosing of test scores help
students to compete with their own abilities and not those of others, and
hpefully to improve on them.
        When the school has failed to reach (or at least reach for) its
ideals, it has been from authoriatarianism and the lack of open
discussions. With the gradual introduction of text books and the
shortening
of some class lengths, the "learning by doing" attitude has flatered in
the
face of nation-wide comparisons and "standards." Interaction between
teachers, administrators, parents, and students of all ages has been
hindered with the introduction of a block schedule. When students feel
they
are being taught mindless facts, and not the art of learning itself, they
become unmotivated, and the lack of a clear-cut disciplinary system adds
to
the problem. These and other similar changes and circumstances have been
due to the absense of community involvement in the decision-making
process.
        The Parker philosphy is perhaps the most cherished and important
aspect of the school. When it is used correctly by many, open-minded
individuals emerge from the experience. When it is twisted and
misinterpreted by a small group of people, bitter indivuals develop.
Currently we are somewhere in between, wavering day to day, and although
perfection is perhaps just a dream, improvement is surely not.

---------------------------------------

Science Self Study

       Our group discussed how Parker's science program has many problems.
The new lab period is not being used for lab time, and is instead used for
other work that is painfully boring and can be done at home.  Also, with
all
the money that was spent on computers and example models, the students
hardly
ever get a chance to use them.  Some feel that the use of fetal pigs and
other
animals for dissection is a waste of life.  Models and computer programs
could
be put to good use to teach students the same anatomy.  The new tenth
grade
science program combining biology, physics, and physical science
frustrates
many of the underclassmen.  They feel that because of the amount of
material
involved with the course, they don't have time to reasonably learn the
information.  We also discussed how Parker courses do not adequetly
prepare
students for science tests outside of Parker such as SAT II tests.  While
there are some good aspects about the science program, we feel that many
changes need to be made in order to create a more positive learning
environment.

-------------------

History Department

        We talked primarily about tracking in the History department.  One
suggestion was that the required courses in the department were tracked.
This led to a discussion about the pros and cons of tracking more courses
in general.  It was also suggested that teachers should have the final
word in in who is allowed to take an AP course, as opposed to a score on
an entrance exam.  In contrast, some students felt that it was solely up
to the student in question, and if he/she wanted to take an AP course,
they should be allowed to, regardless of scores, grades, or previous
performance.  Another topic which occupied our time was a problem which
seems most evident in the history department: apathy on the part of the
student body.  The lack of enthusiasm and participation worried most
people in our group.  Some suggested that teachers make classes more
interesting and invite student participation more frequently in order to
raise student interest levels.

--------------------

Performing Atrs 

        Our self-study group discussions revealied that the students at
Parker suffer from lack of opportunity to perform.  They wich for more
plays, more performances, more varied art classes, more talent shows and
performance showcases without constricting themes, and possibly a
drama/performance club.
        Unfortunately, the students' "demands" (for lack of a better
word), are not likely to come anywhere in the near or even distant future.
Parker, though claiming to be an especially artsy school, pushes the arts
way down on its list of priorities.  The Drama and Music departments are
constantly getting the shaft.  That is why the black-box theater and the
other sorely needed improvements and revisions to the auditorium have been
put off to the point of virtual nonexistence in the rebuilding plans.
This is why the upper school Drama department consists of one person, who
could not possibly single-handedly teach all of the classes that she would
like to offer.  This is why Drama Tech and Special Chorus share one
floating block in the schedule.  That is why there is no Dram classroom
other than the auditorium, which is in constant demand by the rest of the
school.  This is why Grape Jam and Jazz Band have no actual scheduled time
period, and just meet after schol (like extra-curriculars).  That is why
there are no two-semester Drama classes.
        The Drama Department will probably never get the black-box theater
it wants; the Music department will never get the respect and recognition
it wants; the students will never get the extra performances they want as
long as Parker continues to think [publicly]: "Well...it's just art."

--------------------

Visual Arts

        Students in the Visual Arts discussion group were eager to share
their ideas regarding new course possibilities and showed their general
content with the amount of work being displayed throughout the school.
The vast majority of the complaints were about Photo 1 and students voiced
their opinions about how to improve it.  Students felt that most of the
classes were fine but stressed their need to have a wider selection in the
future.  A shocking number of sudents whole-heartedly supported the
addition of some sort of film class.  Overall, students were happy with
teh Visual Arts Department and only wnated to fine-tune some of the
courses.

------------------------

Foreign Language Department

        The discussion of the foreign language department was very
specific and focused mainly on three issues; first, foreign language taken
outside Parker; second, the number of languages taught, and third, the
middle school foreign language program.
        The overwhelming concern of the students is that the department
will not award credit for the foreign language classes taken outside
Parker.  This policy discourages students not only from pursuing languages
that are not offered at parker, but also from embarking on study-abroud
programs through which they might live in a country where neither French
not Spanish is spoken.  In our discussion we considered various ways that
the school could monitor a student's work in an outside language course.
A proficiency exam could be given to the student upon completion of
his/her course and then graded (perhaps this would have to be done by an
outside party, if no one at Parker speaks the particular language).
Credit would be awarded accordingly., based on the student's place of
study.  Letters from the student's teacher about the content of the course
and ongoing communication about the student's worki in the course could
help Parker monitor the student's progress.
        Another solution to the problem of outside language courses was to
add more languages to Parker's own curriculum.  Yet while many Parker
students seem enthusiastic about adding more foreign languages to the
curriculum, our group also recognized that overall participation in
foreign language classes seems to be poorer than in previous years.
Obvioiusly, there is group of people who are anxious to learn languages
other than Spanish, Latin, and French, and accpeting credit for classes
taken outside Parker is one way to satiate this group. Another, perhaps
more convenient, way to give students a chance to study more languages is
to open Paker's evening courses in foreign languages to high school
students.
        The students in our discussion group were extremely concerned
about the lack of high school participation in French and Latin due to the
teaching of Spanish in the middle school.  The majority of the group
thought that French should also be offered in the middle school, giving
students the choice between the two.  Although non of us have ever
attempted to make a school schedule, we expected that the language courses
of each grade in middle school could be scheduled at the same time so that
the students taking French would go to their class at the smae time as the
students taking Spanish go to theirs, and therefore not create a great
scheduling conflict.  If offereing French in the middle school would be
impossible, another idea, which would raise awareness about French and
therefore hopefully promote more students to take French in high school,
is to teach French culture in middle school.
        The remainder of the concerns with the foreign language department
were small changes that students felt should be made regarding the way
classes are taught.  These changes include: a more structured curriculum
in level I & II courses; and field tripsto French and Spanish speaking
areas in the city; more speaking excercises in Spanish and French classes;
and the curriculum in the level V courses.  People in our group felt that
the level V courses were not focused enough; the need to have a specific
area of study, whether it be literature or the history of a specific
country.  One idea was to have the courses be a study of French/Spanish
literature and film.

 


Community Service

	The community service group came to the conclusion that Parker
should continue to require students to have 80 hours of service befroe
graduation.  Students prefer to have the entire four years to do their
community service, instead of having to complete 20 hours by the end of
each year.  There should not be restrictions on what students can do for
community service: it is important for voluteers to enjoy what they are
doing and to care about the organization for which they are working.
Community service is a learning experience, and helps students to become
"citizens of the world."  All members of the group felt that the
administration needs to explain the community service requirement more
clearly to new High School students.  Many of the freshmaen (as well as
other new students) are still confused about the requirement.
Participants in the community service group suggested that Parker should
have an annual Community Sercice event.  This event might take place
during a Morning Ex, in which students can talk to people from different
organizations and sign up to do colunteer work.  The administration may
also want to consider implementing a community service activity into the
Freshmen Orientation schedule.  This would be a great way for students to
bond, while helping others.

Physical Education Department

	The general concensus among the Physical Education group was that
the gym department does not exercises the varying options of study.  There
are many classes available, but only a few of those choices are actually
instituted and instructed as classes.  There was a small group of people
who thought any physical education whatsoever was unneccesary and "a waste
fo time."
	As for the rules pertaining to 9th and 10th grade athletes this
group deemed it unreasonable for them to be obliged to attend gym class.
Especially if an underclassman is on th varsity, his/her athletic
responsibilities equate that of any upperclassman.
	There was only brief discussion concerning the issuance of P.E.
credit for an extra-curricular sport because Parker honors them as
activities.  However, this group concluded that it is contradictory to
allow underclassmen P.E. credit for a sport of health related activity
outside of the school when they are denied credit for a school affiliated
sport.
	Ideas of tracking in the athletic gym classes were mentioned to
potentially increase competitiveness within the domain of gym class.  This
also means increasing the incentive for attending gym class, and is a
system which makes people want to take gym.
	The early bird gym session is being eliminated next year.  When
one student interviewed Mr. Banks about the position of being a coach and
a faculty member which means daily availability for athlete-coach
discussion, Banks replied "I don't like it because my relationship with
the kids changed because I saw how the play."  Mr. Banks also thinks that
instead of upperclassmen athletes having a break in the alloted time slot
for P.E., athletes should be obliged to condition with weights as a team.

Perceptions of Parker Outside fo Parker
	In order to send your child to Parker, the parent must percieve
Parker to have a good reputation.  We believe that when a parent sends
their child to Parker, they feel that it has a warm and unique community
where everyone will find a place they feel comfortable in.
	Over the past few years, Parker has begun a major transition phase
that has shaped what most call the "New Parker."  The parents that have
been involved with Parker for a long time remember the "Old Parker" and
are unhappy about these changes.  However, the new parents seem to be
excited that Parker is changing.  Because of Parker's transition, we have
slowly begun to get rid of our "slacker school" reputation and find that
we are being considered as one of the best schools in Chicago.  Although
many people are thrilled about these new changes and our new reputation,
others feel that Parker was fine the way that it was and that it's not
important what others ouside of Parker think about our school.
	We feel that no matter what changes we make at our school, it will
always be Parker.  We feel that it's important to carry on our old
traditions, but we can adapt new ones if they best suit our interest.  No
matter what changes we make at Parker, we will still be a unique school
that provides a progressive education that stands out from Latin, Lab, and
public schools around the city.

Attitude of the Students and Facuulty
	Our group became quite progicient at raising founded concerns, but
in the end was still looking for more ideas in its attempts to resolve
some of the difficult issues at play in Parker right now.  Our first
meeting focused primarily on students' concerns regarding their peers,
their faculty, and the overall direction of the school.  While initially,
a few hoped for teachers to become more organized in the assertion of
their athority, most in the group realized that behind any apathy and
indifference lay the students.  Some specific student-based grievances
cited:
	-students are not getting as involved in extra-curriculars as they
used to
	-students no longer enjoy being at school, they don't lounge
around during breaks when they could be anywhere else
	-the paucity of student-related anything on the walls.  This was
also mentioned by the late, great, best-president-we-had-last-year Jake
Armstrong upon a recent visit to Parker as being quite disturbing to him.
	-people don't take student government seriously
	-people are generally meaner and more disrespectful than they used
to be
	-for the most part, students have entirely lost respect for the
administration's system of discipline, particularly in dealing with
unexcused absences from a class or from school.
	It was the last complaint which garnered the most attention over
our two meetings.  A few older group members, or those who have older
siblings, commented on a greater overall respect for the school existing
just a few years back.  "People simply have no understanding of how much
money their parents are paying to send them here -- they are here for a
reason, and even if they're not going to study of be positive they owe it
to themselves and their parents at least to show up for school," one
senior noted.  Ideally, the group wanted to be able to recapture that
seemingly idyllic synthesis of burgeoning freedom and fulfilled
responsibility that seemed to epitomize, however vaguely, the Parker of
yore.  Students were aware that, at this point, the goal of a genuinely
concerned, involved, (and not-stoned) student body is far too unrealistic.
Though it may come as a surprise from a student body that has been
complaining all year about the administration impinging upon their rights,
the group assembled in the humanities lounge was calling for stronger
authority in handling the matter fo delinquency, including everything from
drug use during school hours to cutting classes to cheating on tests.  It
seems as if whether or not people want to be here is no longer the issue.
Making people wnat to be here and appreciate the excellence of teaching
that, for the most part, they recieve, is not longer the issue.  The issue
is simply getting students here, forcing them to stay in class and be
semi-obedient and respectful.  This is the degeneration that the group was
most ashamed of, the descent into abysmal levels of integrity and honesty
that left people baffled.  The solution to this problem does not even
nearly lie with the administration.  This concerted effort would have to
be student based, student run, student directed, student performed,
because simply asking for more discipline will only serve to alienate
further an already fragmented community.


The Scedule
	The schedule group discussed different Ideas and improvements we
felt would be beneficial to next year's schedule if possible.
	-We strongly felt that math and language should be taught Five
times a week for 40 min.  This is because we find it necessary to continue
class repeatedly to improve mechanical skills and not forget the previous
class.
	-There should be no double language periods
	-Morning tEXt and Student Government should NOT be back to back if
we go back to the old Wednesday MX/Stu. Gov't schedule, because the
attention span of the students diminishes quickly and Stu. Gov't is rowdy
enough as it is.
	-Graderoom/Advisory should be in the morning so that if
Gradeheads/advisers chooose nopt to hold class the student is not on a
break where not other teachers are available for help, they are at home
sleeping instead, which is just as educational.
	-No Early-bird Gym
	-No straight classes from 8am -> 1pm without a break
	-Morning tEXt should not be run only by teachers.  Students should
be able to share their experiences regarding longitude and vacations in
Europe!


Technology and Facilities

Technology:
     Parker has committed to spending a great deal of money to enhance 
the technology available in the school.  Just this year, an entire new 
computer lab was added.  All teachers have their own computers, and there 
is (on average) at least one in each classroom.  All computers are 
connected to the Internet.  By the end of next school year, Parker will 
have four computer labs.  Although all this sounds wonderful, there are 
still concerns.  You can't just buy a lot of computers expect us to be 
up-to-speed. There should be a long-term plan and much better 
computer-education for both students and teachers.
     Most students are able to word process on a computer through skills 
learned at home or through disjointed computer courses during middle 
school.  This is promising, but most students are uncomfortable using the 
World Wide Web or E-mail.  Most teachers also lack enough training in 
computers.  The outcome of this is that it is difficult integrate 
computers into the curriculum in most classrooms.
     There are some cases that show how helpful the use of computers and 
the Internet are. The science department has been using interactive Laser 
Discs for a few years in many different age groups.  There have been 
laboratory activities involving computers or computer monitoring 
equipment and computer data-analysis.  In addition, teachers, who have 
become proficient with computers, have encouraged students to use the 
Internet as a resource and create presentations on computers.  There are 
some teachers who are teaching their students how to create interactive 
presentations (primarily in the middle school) and web pages.
If we want to be a technologically advanced school, we should stop 
blindly buying computers in waves and focus on the education provided 
with computers.  Many students are at discontent with the school's 
split-decision on which platform its computers should be.  The middle 
school lab is filled with Macs while the high school lab holds PCs 
running Windows 95.  This does not provide an even flow of knowledge.  
Another concern is that incoming high school freshman have experience 
using Macs; however, their new computer lab is filled with Windows.  The 
computer curriculum needs serious examination.
     We must offer a strong computer curriculum in basic computer use (in 
a specified platform or platforms), word processing, spreadsheets, 
Internet use and graphics applications.  We must also offer course to 
children who would like to learn more in-depth skills, such as web 
publishing and computer programming. We must also bring all our teachers 
up to a certain level of ability and then make sure they have the 
knowledge to integrate computers.  Every teacher should a computer, which 
is connected to a built in TV or projector and the Internet in every 
classroom.  In some classrooms there are teachers and students who have 
expressed interest in having laptops available.

               Facilities
     It is highly visible that the school is investing a lot of money 
into the reconstruction of its facilities.  A new hallway has been added 
to the high school, and an entire new facility is on its way.  Although 
the outburst of new space is wonderful, teachers no-longer have their own 
offices and it seems that the overall population of the school is going 
to increase.
     The students have expressed their content with the new furniture in 
the classrooms.  Blue reclining chairs and movable desks enhance the 
atmosphere of the classroom.  There is also much appreciation with added 
space in the lunchroom.  The new locker-areas are also of much praise.  
Student organizations have all benefited by the addition of an office 
about half the size of a classroom.  
     However, many students feel that the new atmosphere that has been 
created is not that of the Parker in which they have been studying so 
long.  There is a clear lack of art in the new halls of Parker.  One idea 
is to have the art department organize a mural project (such as the one 
in the middle school) where each grade generates its own mural.  It would 
also help to give students space to display their own artwork.  Students 
recall walking through the hallway and seeing tiles that they created 
when they were in fourth grade.  
Students have also indicated that they would like to have a recreation 
area in which they can "get away" from school (and not be faced with 
Clark St. mayhem).  In such an area they might be able to have a snack, 
watch some television, play Ping-Pong, and even catch a nap.


Math Department

	The Math group acknowledged four main concerns with the Math
Department at Parker.  We then split up into even smaller groups to do
research on those four issues.
	Firstly, students voiced the concern that double courses (one
course that has two sections at the same level; e.g. there are two Algebra
I sections in 9th grade) are not taught at the same pace.  This is
probably because the courses are taught by different teachers.  However,
the students recognized that not only was one section moving at a quicker
pace, but also they were learning more material, and even different
material in the different sections.  The obvious way to fix this problem
would be to have the double courses taught by the same teacher.  If that
is an impossibility then it was suggested that the two teachers meet more
often and even rotate between the sections so that one teacher will not
teach the same section all year.
	Students were also dismayed by their belief that the "regular" and
"advanced" math courses were too disparate.  Some students felt that
having the "advanced" courses reach material by sophomore year that some
"regular" courses don't cover until senior year was too much of a
difference.  They felt that students at Parker should all have a more
uniform math education in terms of reaching advanced concepts.  However,
there were others in the group who felt that their math education would
either be slowed to an agrivatingly slow pace, or forced to understand
concepts that need more time to be considered.  Thus, the group was
divided on this issue.
	Another concern mentioned by some of the older math students in
the group was that of the continuation of the Advanced Topics I & II
courses after the retirement of George Barr McCutcheon.  The group
recognizes that naming specific teachers is not necessarily appropriate
but McCutcheon has been here for 50 years and so have the Advanced Topics
courses.  There is serious doubt as to whether a new teacher can be hired
that is qualified to teach the courses as Mr. McCutcheon has written some
of the formative texts on the material covered in the courses.  The group
did not exactly know what to do on this issue other than recommend that a
lot of thought go into the hiring of a new math teacher (as in the
students' eyes the math and science departments have not been so
successful in that area in recent years).
	One self-described "mathmatically declined" student said that he
was extremely pleased with the math education he was recieving at Parker.
He said that the school had been very accomodating in recognizing his
problem and placing him in appropriate courses to help him.  He said that
his teachers were fabulous and although he may not be learning much
compared to his classmates, felt as though he was learning a lot.
	Overall the group generally liked the things going on in the math
department.  There are good courses and good teachers to teach them.  But
the group also recognized that there are going to have to be some changes
in the near future and are concerned that the Math department continue its
strong instruction.
