        "You know what we should do?" said Adam Kosobud on an unseasonabley cold Friday afternoon.  "We should get a whole bunch of people and pile into a car and go to the game."  The game, of course, meant the sectional championship game against Latin at Fenwick High School.
        "I'm game," I replied immediately.  Having not attended a soccer game since my questionable half-time ejection from the _____ game a week before, I was psyched and ready for some Sectional action.  
        In my immediate vacinity were four sophomores and two other seniors who quickly declared that they would be joining me on the excursion to Fenwick.  Thus, the better part of five and one-half seconds having elapsed since Adam's original suggestion I had a car full of seven raging colonel fans. 
        Before I continue I must reveal the list of people originally going on the trip for the reader will need to know for the rest of the story to be interesting.  The list included sophomores: Maggie Haskins, Lia Jordano, Ben Felton, and Bob Matteson; Seniors: Baker Franke, Brad Davis, and Adam Kosobud.  
        It must also be explained that the game was to be played on a Saturday, Nov. 1 ... the same day of the administration of the SAT II's in the morning.  Arriving at School at 8:00 I decided on the spot to take only two of the suggested three tests on the SAT II (hey, I had a game to get to) so that I could hurry home on the 22 Clark bus to get my car and call people to tell them I was coming.  
        Test 2 finnished I ran out of the building and hurried to the corner of Webster and Clark.  I saw no bus comming in the near future, so upon inspecting the contents of my wallet which revealed seven one dollar bills longing to be spent, I hailed a cab not even sure if $7 was enough to get me home but I had a game to get to.  
        Leaving the cab driver with a 25 cent tip and a sincere appology I hurried into my appartment and grabbed a Pakrer directory.  First call, Maggie Haskins: "Uh, Baker.  I decided to go with Jenny [Hall] because she's just driving out there by herself and she's got lots of room."  Hey, no skin off my back.  I  was now down to a legal number of people in my car.  Next call, Lia Jordano:  "Uh, Lia isn't home right now can I leave a message."  I would call back later.  Next call, Ben Felton: "Yeah, I'm ready to go, Bob is here with me."  My first confirmation that was good.  Next call, Adam Kosobud: "You'll be here in 20 minutes?  Damn, I'd better get dressed."   What can I say.  Next call, Lia Jordan, again: "Uh, Lia's not home right now, can I take a message?"  I'd call back later.  
        I decided that I'd better have some cheering equipment for this game or I could not be as rowdy as I had potential to be.   I grabbed a red duffle bag with a volume of about 20 cubic feet.  Everything navy blue in my house, including an old Dance Squad sweatshirt and palm-palms that I had used the day before for my Halloween costume, was in my bag in 5 minutes.  It wasn't quite full so I grabbed some blankets and ponchos in the event of unfavorable weather conditions and threw them in as well.  I was all ready to go.  Last call, Lia Jordano, third time: "Uh, Lia's not home right now.  Can I help you?  Why do you keep calling here?"  Oh well, I would have to play it by ear. 
        Having grabbed an amazing collection of late 80's and early 90's music I hustled down to the garage to be on my way.  I got in the driver's seat and turned on the ignition.  Game time: 2:00.  Current time: 11:15.  Gas tank: Full.  All systems go, look out, there's a game to get to. 
        First stop: Francis W. Parker School.   I had to wait two precious minutes for Brad Davis to be excused from his third SAT II test.  We hurried out of school, wishing the soccer team good luck (they had not left for the game yet and were waiting for the bus in the front hall).  Brad calls shotgun.  Next Stop: North to Ben Felton's house.  We arrive at Felton's house to find Bob Matteson waiting for us on the sidewalk.  We sit in the car and wait another two precious minutes for Felton to come out.  He had to watch his precious Iowa football game.  Hey, we had our own game to get to.  Felton get's in the car and says, "Hey, Lindsay Tamblyn wants to go to the game but I don't think she has a ride, can we take her?"  Having only five people in the car with Maggie taken care of and Lia a doubtful prospect I uttered, "Sure!"  
        The "Franke Cruiser" as it had been donned pulled up to Tamblyn's house to find Lindsay waiting outside.  Alright that was five.  Next Stop: Due West to Adam Kosobud's House.  With a cerimonial obnoxious honk of the horn outside chez Kosobud, Adam appeared almost instantly porting his own collection of amazing early 90's music.  Bonus.  I decided I would drive by Lia's house just to see if she was there which was unlikely, and then take off and ditch her.  Hey we had a game to get to.  On the way back South Lindsay squirms to the vibration of her pager which reveals the phone number of one Jayme Fogel.  "If we're going to Lia's house we might as well stop at Jayme's.  She probably wants to got to the game too."  I decided we would go to Jayme's house first to see if she wanted to go.  If Jamye did go we would be back up to the original number of seven.
        Thus, I turned off of Halsted onto Armatige going east where I was immediately forced to break hard as the Mercedes in front of me came to a screaching halt.  I too, came to a screaching halt not 6 inches from bashing in the back of the mercedes.  Before I could gasp a sigh of relief I felt my head lurch forward as every bone and tendon in my neck strained to keep head from propelling through the windshield, and then suddenly slam back against the head rest.  We had been nailed from behind by the idiot driving the pontiac Grand Am.
	I pulled over to the side of street and got out of the car.  WE didn't have a lot of time now.  I looked at the back of my car (by the way this is a Ford Taurus with 104,000 miles on it).  No visible damage.  Built Ford Tough.  I glance at the Grand Am: both head lights broken, hood smashed in and crimpled, radiator vent nowhere to be found.  I look at the idoit.  "Well, I guess this is totally my fault," he says.  "I guess so," I said.  "Look," I continued, "I got a game to get to.  I see no damage to my car, so I really don't care."  Agreed. Hey, my first accident!  But, there was a much more pressing issue...we had a game to get to.
	We roll up to Fogel's House and decide that it's time for a stretch.  I had been driving for about an hour now.  FOGEL FOGEL FOGEL....YADA YADA YADA

	Now, it was time to see if Lia actually was home.  After pulling up in front of her house the carr elected Felton to get out and ring the doorbell.  This may not seem like a big deal - getting out of the car - but it was quite difficult.  Felton rings the doorbell, waits, talks to Lia's mother, and returns.  "She'll be right out," said Felton.  Holy Smokes.  Seven people was hard enough.  Eight was bordering on ridiculous.  But I would not let Lia down on my promise to take her to the game.  We would have to find a way.  Lia emerged wearing the same clothes that she had on the previous evening (I'm not even going to go there), and circled the car surveying for a proper place to cram herself into.  Solution, keep the seating arangement the same as with seven people, but this time have Lia get a running start and dive into the back seat closing the door quickly behind her to reduce spillage.  As for the arrangement of bodies in the back seat: let them work it out, we had a game to get to.
