Route 66 Website - Text extract
Website: https://bakerfranke.github.io/route66/
All Images
* Images embedded in site: https://bakerfranke.github.io/route66/images
* Larger format for days 7-12: bakerfranke.github.io/route66/images_lg
*  (google photo album): https://photos.app.goo.gl/31GofedkYDts81YL8






Day 1 [7/21/99]
Day 2 [7/22/99]
Day 3 [7/23/99]
Day 4  [7/24/99]
Day 5  [7/24/99]
Day 6  [7/25/99]
Day 7  [7/27/99]
Day 8  [7/28/99]
Day 9  [7/29/99]
Day 10  [7/30/99]
Day 11  [7/31/99]
Day 12  [8/1/99]
Day 13  [8/2/99]
Day 14  [8/3/99]
Day 15 [8/4/99]
Day 1 [7/21/99]
From: Chicago, IL
To: St. Louis, MO
Total Miles: 293 
Sites Seen: Launching Pad Cafe, Log Cabin Inn, Funk's Grove, Atlanta, Jane's House.
Today's Entry By: John Raskin




day1_spaceMan2.JPG (12512 bytes)
John and Rachel contemplate the loins of the Gemini Giant


Wednesday morning at 9 o’clock, as the day begins
Silently closing the kitchen door
Leaving to pick up three fourths of the four
He goes downtown to the Frankes’
Picking up Rachel first
Quietly turning onto Ogden
Leaving downtown they are free
They’re leaving home


Well, we made it to Chicago before we got lost. Something about Ogden turning out from under us, and we ended up driving by a lot of places that said "taqueria" and other stuff in Spanish. Anyway, we ended up on Joliet Road for a while and drove past a big Martian where some woman who didn’t speak English took a picture of me and Rachel.


We stopped at the Log Cabin Inn in Pontiac, so that the athletic kids could use the batting cages while Alex and I looked behind the building for a road that didn’t exist. According to our guidebook, which is about as clear as the Francis Parker cut policy, a section of the original Route 66 was supposed to fade off in the distance behind the building. Instead, there was a freshly constructed pile of rubble which we believe is the still-warm corpse of the Mother Road. Rachel took a souvenir brick.


After Pontiac the road stayed just east of I-55 mostly, and it ran alongside an antique but seemingly operational row of telephone poles. Sometimes I veered away from the highway and into the rest of America, which is apparently filled with corn. Each time we got lost, though, we somehow turned up found, especially in time to eat lunch in Lexington (named, of course, for the battle). We also played on their brand new community playground and Rachel used the bathroom of the fire department, which in turn spent the day rotating its trucks.


day1_funksgrove2.JPG (8793 bytes)
day1_funkSign.jpg (4166 bytes)
Won't you take me to...Funky Town.


day1_janesHouse.jpg (9179 bytes)
Alex Franke: "Oh my god.  It IS the apartment from Flashdance."


We then proceeded Towanda into Bloomington, which was Normal. In Funk’s Grove, population negligible, we bought their world-famous maple "sirup" and Baker mispronounced Glaida Funk’s name to her face. We also visited the library/museum in Atlanta, Illinois, a town with a rich history of citizens being born, living, and then dying in their rocking chair of unexplained causes while they otherwise feel just fine. This is according to a newspaper article framed in the museum. They also single-handedly consolidated their school districts in the 1970s, when the supply of children dried up. That was a big event in Atlanta.


We followed Route 66 pretty successfully through Springfield, where we examined the itinerary, time of day and weather and decided that we were sick of driving on the damn frontage road and getting lost in cornfields. So we got on the interstate and went to St. Louis, an area that has the fine accomplishment of becoming a bustling city in spite of the fact that nobody lives there. The streets are empty, the restaurants are empty, and all the signs that mark state roads are shaped like Missouri, which is just weird. We passed by the arch and argued over whether there are windows in it (there are), and then we rented a movie and fell asleep to it, except for me. I fell asleep late, late at night and woke up in the morning to find that, thanks to continental drift or something, Baker was sleeping about an inch from my face. And you don’t want to see Baker’s face while he’s sleeping. But I’m encroaching on Alex’s territory, so I’ll sign off.




Day 2 [7/22/99]
From: St. Louis, MO
To: Carthage, MO
Total Miles: 291 
Sites Seen: Meramec Caverns, David, Rita's(Jane's) Cafe in Cuba, Devil's Elbow, Mark Twain Nat'l Forest
Today's Entry By: Alex Franke




day2_lassie.jpg (6628 bytes)
Lassie!


After the difficulty we had staying on the road yesterday we decided to start out on the interstate (passing by some uneventful parts of 66) and get to the Meramec Caverns early. Leaving Jane’s at about 9:00 a.m., we hit the road and reached the caverns by 10:30. Parking the van in a somewhat populated parking lot, we left the comfort of the van’s air conditioning and entered the sweltering Missouri heat. We went inside a smallish building with a sign marked "tours."  Inside we were surprised to find a huge mall and the comforting feel of air conditioning.  The building was built on the opening of the cave and most of this shopping area was actually inside the cave. Walking into the cave towards the ticket purchase counter we noticed that it was getting much colder and that there was, in fact, no air conditioning; instead, the cave was giving off sixty degree air. We passed by dozens of slot machine type, money-losing devices. After losing some money we bought tour tickets for $12 apiece. At such a steep price we hoped it would be worth it. We had no idea what we had coming.


Rachel and I ran out to the car for sweatshirts before the tour started. Upon our return our tour guide, David, took our tickets and guided us through a turnstile. David was certainly no older than we are and probably a few years younger. I would describe David as an intelligent weenie who is bored with his summer job and so doesn’t make a lot of effort to make the tour good. Little did he know that his lack of interest made him all the more amusing to us. He grabbed his flashlight and began the tour.


The floor was perfectly level and covered with lunchroom tiles, and the cave walls were lined with orange and white lunchroom chairs. Right in front of the turnstile was a small wooden shed with a neon sign above it that said "Jesse James' Hideout." Inside was a dusty replica of a still and an oddly positioned mannequin who was, we gathered, supposed to be Jesse James. The cave itself was relatively dark and the sides were occasionally blasted with multicolored floodlights. Guided by David, we continued across the tile floor into what we were told was a ballroom. We didn’t believe it until we looked up to see a disco ball hanging twenty feet above our heads. Our thought was, "what a great place to have a prom." Next we saw a twelve-tiered lunchroom chair pyramid. At this point it didn’t seem worth questioning why the chairs were there; I just wondered how they got the chairs up twelve levels. David guided the group over to a swinging pendulum and proceeded to deliver a series of poorly scripted "jokes" about the function, or lack thereof, of this pendulum.


"This pendulum was created tobeacompass that would tracktheearthsmovement, and itwasbuilt by highschoolstudents. There are four othersintheworld, but this is the only one thatwasbuiltunderground, and the only one that does not work." David continued to tell us about its faults as the four of us first tried to understand what he was saying and then gave up and started laughing. Now the tour group had thirty people or so but it was very obvious where the laughter was coming from. The more we tried to contain it, the louder it got.


day2_caverns.jpg (10107 bytes)
David: "It doesn't matter what you call them, it all means the same thing."


day2_Rita's.jpg (12796 bytes)
The gang enjoys a tasty lunch at Rita's (soon to be Jane's) Cafe on Route 66 in Cuba, MO.


We left the tile floor and the tour proceeded through many cave tunnels with stalactites and stalagmites. At the underground river where Jesse James escaped, there was a statue in the water holding a lantern. David made sure to inform us that that was the last time he would be mentioning Jesse James on the tour. Around a few more bends David stopped us to say, "Now, hereinthisnextroom is supposedly whereLassiefoundTimmywhenhegotlost in a cave. Make sure to keep up because the lightswillturnoutbehindus as we continue through. Ifyougetleftinthedark just squeezeacan." We had been hanging towards the back of the group so we wouldn’t have to laugh at Dave to his face, but now we scooted ourselves ahead so we wouldn’t get left in the dark. Rachel asked where these cans were that we were supposed to squeeze if we got left in the dark. John was the only one to understand that David had actually said "scream as loud as you can," not "squeeze a can."


As we entered Lassie’s cave each of us stopped in our tracks as we saw the cardboard cutout of Lassie that someone had placed in the distance. With a bright floodlight on her, Lassie was protecting the cave, and she reduced us to tears of laughter.


Next we climbed "exercise alley," so called because it was an upward-slanted cave path. At the top were an onyx mountain and a beautiful stalactite/stalagmite room that was ruined by ugly splashes of colored light. Up some more (64) stairs was the "wine room" that had grapelike formations on the walls, and a "wine table."  Look it up.


At this point it had been about an hour and we were led back down some more (probably 64) stairs into a theater. The walls and ceiling of the theater were cave and there were tiered levels of benches. The reason for the theater was so guests could sit and appreciate the "curtain" that was formed by joined stalactites and stalagmites. Once again colored floodlights covered the walls and ceiling. David got us all to sit down so he could tell us about the curtain. After explaining nothing he said, "and without further ado, the Missouri Waltz." At that point he pressed play on a machine that was embedded in the cave wall and sure enough we were blasted with music. After the waltz David reported that the curtain was used at some point for a concert of sorts, and Kate Smith sang God Bless America from "stage right." "And now without further ado, Kate Smith." David turned out all the lights and pressed play again. On came Kate Smith. She sounded much like Beverly Greenberg might sound recorded on a fifty-year-old record. As Kate sang at us David proceeded to create a light show for us. He did this by franticly flipping on and off about ten light switches which controlled all the theater’s floodlights. The emotion of the cave experience gathered in all of our stomachs and was shot out in the form of laughter so strong that it was silent. The vision of David, which we could only catch in the snatches of light that he was creating, excitedly presenting his show, which you know he had been thinking about all day, was too much for us to take. The real problem was that we didn’t understand how the other people on the tour didn’t find this hilarious. This was the kind of laughter that builds on itself, and we all managed to keep it quite until the moment when the rendition ended and the locals all held a silence filled with patriotism when Rachel emitted one high pitched cackle , that set the rest of us off. The song over and the lights back on, David told us to gather our things and follow him towards the exit. As we waited to file out, he walked by us to lead the group. As he passed he looked right at Rachel and said sarcastically, yet somehow demeaningly, "Thanks a lot for laughing, like it was sooo funny." Unfortunately, this sent us, particularly me, into another laughing fit, and as we filed out we tried to figure out why he was so mad. Rachel was sure that it was her fault, and Baker thought it was because we didn’t have respect for America, or God blessing it. John and I didn’t know what to think but no one wanted to be the first to go through the exit turnstile where David was waiting to say goodbye. As we exited he said, "Thanks again for laughing at me," and smiled in kind of a playful way. We all felt bad that he thought we were making fun of him, even though we were. After spending some time in the gift shop we considered giving him a fruit roll up as an apology gift but decided to drop it. We stripped off our sweatshirts as we reentered the Missouri heat and pulled away, satisfied that we had gotten our twelve dollars' worth.        


day2_BootsMotel.jpg (12506 bytes)
The "Ki-boots"


day2_Fountain.jpg (7352 bytes)
What exactly is Alex doing?


Leaving La Jolla National Park, we decided to stick with 66 for the rest of the day or at least until we couldn’t stand it any more. We found our way back to the Mother Road without much difficulty. We are always happy to find historic Route 66 markers but lacking those we feel comfort at the sight of train tracks which we know run along the old road and the old telephone lines which are only about twenty feet tall. As we whisked down the road trying to follow the book's directions, making sure to hold our breath as we passed cemeteries, and listening to the styling tunes of Snoop Doggy Dog, we discovered the great state of Missouri. Baker phrased it correctly when he said, "Where does Missouri get off being such a gorgeous state?"
Route 66 took us through Cuba, MO, where we decided to eat lunch. We drove by a small, authentic looking diner with a sign saying EAT. Because that is what we wanted to do we went into "Rita’s Cafe on Route 66." We each ordered a meal for less than three dollars from Jane, who we found out was the new proprietor of this eatery. Jane was in her mid twenties and very nice in a kooky kind of way. She was rather hyper, which she explained was because she was so tired. She asked for drink orders, got distracted, and had to ask again. She gave us a look like, "What are you gonna do." After clearing up the drink thing she apologized by saying, "Short. Small Brain," describing herself. Before Rachel got too offended that Jane thought short people were dumb I explained to her that I think she meant that she had a short-term memory today so her brain didn’t work. When Baker ordered both fries and onion rings she said that she called people like that porkys. She was obviously very distracted but realized that she was entertaining us with her insanity. John, Rachel, and I left the Cafe and Baker stayed to go to the bathroom and take care of our $14 bill. When Baker returned we could tell that he had had another experience that he needed to report. He had accidentally gone into the kitchen while looking for the bathroom and had run into Jane. He said, "Oh, I was looking for the bathroom." Jane then retorted, "No use peein’ in the kitchen. People’ll make a fuss."


We continued on our way following old 66 which brought us into Devil's Elbow, which is where we really discovered the beauty of Missouri. Devil's Elbow was a tiny town with no center to speak of, but it did have a nice old bridge crossing a slowly flowing river. We drove over the bridge and saw a gorgeous view. Just past the bridge we decided to stop and walk back. The river was down in a canyon of sorts and the walls of the canyon were draped with luscious green vines, and the antiquity of the bridge made the whole thing beautiful. After a few minutes of gazing, the heat got the better of us and we hopped back in the van.


We spent the rest of the afternoon rolling over the foothills of the Ozarks. The valleys in the road were so pointy that once we reached the bottom of them the up side of the hill looked like a vertical wall. We avoided bottoming out the car, and successfully created many tummy butterflies and giggles.


At the end of the day we rolled into the Boots Motel, labeled in our book and the itinerary as the Booth Motel. It looked a little sketchy from the outside but the rooms were spacious and "squeaky-clean," as a sign outside said. We hopped across the road to the Bam-Boo Garden for dinner (a rather depressingly empty Asian restaurant), and got some Braum’s ice cream for dessert, which we ate in the park. We returned to our rooms, planned for tomorrow, wrote a few postcards and hit the hay.




Day 3 [7/23/99]
From: Carthage, MO
To: El Reno, OK
Total Miles: 200 < X < 300 
Sites Seen: Kansas, Murrah Building, A Tank, A Sullied Swimming Pool, Joey
Today's Entry By: Rachel Caplan




day3_postHug.jpg (11318 bytes)
day3_kansas.jpg (14723 bytes)
Hi...Bye.


We woke up this morning in the Boots (not Booth) Motel. We then got in our van and rode down the street for 50 feet till we arrived at our breakfast destination of The Breakfast Hut. Here we ate pancakes, all of us except for John who had his long anticipated mushrooms and his morning dose of cottage cheese. We enjoyed our $15 meal (for four), and continued on for the day.


We left our lush state of Missouri and headed into my favorite little stretch of Kansas. While in Kansas we spotted the Route 66 signs painted on the road every hundred feet. We also stopped at a teepee for a photo op. I am up in the top. It’s hard to see me cause it’s kind of dark, but I had to climb onto Baker’s shoulders so I could be seen. So look closely 'cause I’m there. My favorite spot in Kansas was the little grocery store that we had seen the day before in the post card we sent to Kathryn Carr. They "have an open Produce Porch on the front, with French doors, and a few tables and chairs where you can eat or just rest." About two miles later we left Kansas, cued up the Oklahoma C.D. and entered the fabulous, south central state of "O-K-L-A-H-O-M-A Oklahoma, OK."


Our first stop in Oklahoma was at an old and apparently empty Buffalo ranch. Alex bounded about looking for actual buffalo, but had about as much success as Linus searching for the Great Pumpkin. Alex had to settle for giving us a show of her best buffalo impression (see photo). Our next stop brought us to another old, apparently abandoned water hole. The main feature of the small lake/pond is a large fiberglass(?) whale with a water slide coming out of him (see photo). We wanted to get closer to the whale but signs posted on the property that said such things as, "No Trespassing: You will be shot" were a little too formidable for us make an attempt at disobeying them. So we got as close as we could, took a picture, and got out of there.        


day3_StoreSign.jpg (8925 bytes)
Authentic roadside store in Kansas


day3_TeePee.jpg (9419 bytes)
Your average, run-of-the-mill roadside teepee


Thanks to John Ackenhausen, president of the Oklahoma Route 66 Association, and the brochures he sent us, we found our way to the J. M. Davis Gun Museum in Claremore, OK. Here we learned all about J. M Davis. He received his first gun as a little tyke for taking his medicine. He later received three more when his father died. While we were deeply engaged in the 20,000 guns, knives, and animal heads, our attention was most captured by the huge WWII-era tank located in front of the Museum.


We stopped in Oklahoma City for dinner. Before we ate we had a sobering experience at the memorial site of the Murrah Federal Building bombing. We visited the fences covered with pictures and dedications to all the victims of the bombing. Most of the dedications were sad, and somber poems, and accounts of who the people were and what they should have lived to become. Some of us were moved to tears. On the whole we were glad that we visited the site, but we weren’t quite as chipper when we left.


Soon, however, we had to be quick on our feet. Included amongst the card, flowers and other mementos were many bracelets with the letters W.W.J.D. inscribed in them. I, being curious, decided to ask a passing officer what the letters stood for. I soon realized that I had completely blown my cover (as a Jew) when he looked at me for a moment and replied, "Most of the kids like to ask themselves `What would Jesus do?’ in unfortunate situations." We hurried back to the car and went on to dinner.        


day3_buffaloBurger.jpg (10599 bytes)
Alex discovers her inner buffalo


day3_blueWhale.jpg (14764 bytes)
Dispite their smiles, Rachel, Baker, and John are trying to avoid getting shot.


For dinner we ate at the Rib Crib, where they had live outdoor entertainment. This was an exciting event for me because I consumed my first bite of red meat in the past ten years. I had a rib of my own and maybe ate half of it. It wasn’t as good as I had remembered from my childhood, but I enjoyed it just the same. I still got my fare share of BBQ from my Chicken and Cajun fries.


Our traveling concluded for the night in El Reno, OK at the Best Western. Alex and I had been long awaiting the opportunity to swim at this night's lodging. While checking in I asked the lady at the front desk, who we did not take much of a liking to, what the hours of the pool were. She told me that it was closed for the night because it needed to be cleaned due to an "accident" that occurred earlier that day. Luckily the mini-Big-Toy was still open so I could exert some stored up energy. While I had lots of fun swinging and sliding, we still had a little bit of a rumble back in the room. Unrelated to the above, Alex and I built a tent in our room and had a secret meeting. Meanwhile John and Baker were outside meeting Joey, the son of the scary racist from Ada, OK. Baker and John entertained Joey with golf balls and the "didi" (digital) camera.
After concluding the evening with one last rumble, I crawled into my tent and fell asleep. Whatever happened after that is a mystery to me too.


day3_tank.jpg (13444 bytes)
Pvt. Caplan liberates Claremore, OK.




Day 4  [7/24/99]
From: El Reno, OK
To: Elk City, OK
Total Miles: approx. 97 
Sites Seen: Lucilles, Pop Hicks', Route 66 Museum, Old 66, the National "Museum"
Today's Entry By: Baker Franke




day4_treeTunnel.jpg (13379 bytes)
The van exits a Tree Tunnel in Oklahoma


We weren’t quite sure what to expect. We’d heard good. We’d heard bad. We first discovered Lucille on the Internet. The web page featuring her old gas station reported that she had just gotten back from the hospital, suffering from various things having to do with old age.  Our books report that Lucille is a sweet little lady who, for some reason kept her little store open over the years, and had countless stories to regale you with. A recent account of a Rt. 66 trip that we read, however, said that Lucille had turned into a somewhat rude, money hungry woman, and that this "Mother of the Mother Road, is not to fond of her child or its friends." Basically, we did not know what to expect. Quite frankly, we were a little scared.
We pulled up the old building, which is basically nowhere in the middle of nowhere somewhere between El Reno, OK and Elk City, OK. We recognized it immediately from the pictures on the web. We got out and saw that the store had two signs: One, a that said "OPEN" and another, handwritten, in a very shaky hand that said, "If you want, buy, or look at anything, knock on house door." We all kind of looked at eachother, and then Rachel headed up to the "house," a trailer conversion that sat behind and to the left of the old store. Rachel knocked as we all followed to the door. Alex noticed several very small kittens roaming the premises. After a good two minutes with no reply, we were about to turn around and leave, when a very small woman with thin, orange-brown hair opened the door. She didn’t really say anything but acknowledged that we wantroed to see the store. She walked out her door, straight past us, and into the backdoor of her store. Expecting to follow her through the back door, I was a bit startled to have the door slammed in my face. At this point we were expecting the worst.        


day4_lucilles.jpg (15753 bytes)
The van parked at Lucille's and 3/4 of us smiling at her side.


day4_lunch.jpg (12273 bytes)
Rachel and John try to blend in at Pop Hicks' in Clinton, OK.


We walked around to the front of the store and found that Lucille had unlocked it. We entered a rather dirty-looking and small old "store." The candy on the shelves looked very old, and all of the t-shirts on the hangers had accumulated dust on the shoulders. But Lucille was nice. Very nice. She willingly signed post-cards for us and we traded pleasantries. We explained that we were from Chicago and we were "doing the road." She asked us to sign her guestbook, and we entered our names among the annuls of countless others who had visited Lucille’s. Personally, I think she liked us because we were just kids who wanted to experience the road, and we didn’t really want anything from Lucille. The men who wrote the somewhat discouraging account of a visit with her were trying to write a book, and wanted to set up photography lights in her store to get pictures. Seeing as Lucille is mentioned, and interviewed in almost every book, brochure, flyer, and documentary about Route 66, I can see why she would be apprehensive to oblige another want-to-be author. She was perfectly nice to us. So, we bought some postcards and t-shirts and got a few pictures with Lucille and went on our way. We all chalked it up to a good road experience.


This ended up being our shortest day in terms of mileage, about 97 miles, but it was full of long stops. From Lucille’s we proceeded on to Clinton, OK where we had lunch at Pop Hicks’ restaurant. Pop Hicks’ was definitely a genuine Route 66 joint. The menu featured everything from cheesburgers to BBQ Beef on a hamburger roll. The experience definitely felt authentic (notice the locals in the lunch photo). After lunch we made an attempt to play miniature golf. Even though we found a suitable course we decided that on a day when the temperature ranged from 101 degrees in the morning to 110 in the afternoon, that we would at least pass out, if not die, if we tried to play a full 18. So, we proceeded on to the Route 66 Museum in Clinton. Let me say right off the bat that this is a delightful museum and it was definitely worth my $1 entrance fee. The museum looks brand new. Everything is shiny, and all of the glass is clean. It was definitely a change from what we had been used to. The $1 entrance fee included an audio tape tour and a free bumper sticker. The museum is well laid out and easy to use. It’s also a lot of fun because unlike most museums where everything that moves is cemented shut, you could freely touch and play with everything here. You could flip all the levers and twist all the knobs on an old Phillips 66 Gas Pump, you could turn the neon sign in the vintage restaurant on and off. What can I say? I’m still a little boy at heart. After our hour long walk around the museum we had a delightful talk with Forrest Tenant, the old man working the souvenir counter. I am already forgetting what we talked about, but it was everything from the disappearance of Latin in public high schools in Oklahoma (apparently the Clinton High School had recently taken out Latin and added wrestling) to things we should do on the road. But it didn’t really matter what was said. It was just nice to have another great conversation with someone who really appreciates what we’re doing, is genuinely happy to listen to our tales of the road so far, and is willing to bestow us with some of their own road wisdom. Cheers to Forrest Tenant.        


day4_museum.jpg (18110 bytes)
above: The facade of the new fangled Route 66 Museum in Clinton, OK.  below: Rachel looks over at two suspicious looking characters in a mock 66 dinner at the museum. 


day4_roadsheild2.jpg (6900 bytes)
A Rt. 66 shield painted a portion of the old 66.


Then we headed out to Elk City. The stretch of Old 66 between Clinton and Elk City is one of the best stretches that we’ve seen yet, at least in my opinion. The road is built of the old approximately 20ft. Square concrete blocks and the shrubs along the sides of the road creep in about a foot on each side. It looks like the road hasn’t been touched for about 50 years…beautiful. We finally reached Elk City (a 3-exit town). Before we attempted to find our hotel we wanted to get to the self-proclaimed, National Route 66 Museum. Now, having been to the Route 66 Museum in Clinton, let me just say, from the bottom of my heart, that the "National" museum in Elk City SUCKED. This entrance fee was $5 dollars and all they really had were some fancy models of cars that may have, at some point, been like the cars that traveled route 66. No real information; no real history; no nothing. If you didn’t know one single thing about Route 66 you might be able to take this museum as an introduction to the road, but why the hell else would you find yourself in Elk City, OK if you weren’t either doing the road, or you didn’t know anything about it? I really hope this "museum" fixes itself. The "museum" is actually broken into three parts, the Route 66 being one of the three. One of the others is an even crapier "Farm and Ranch Museum" which appears to be a working barn with the tractors roped off so you can’t touch them that you have to pay to get into. There was also a display every kind of barbwire that has been produced since the stuff was invented. It all pretty much looked the same. It all was pretty stupid. Thoroughly disappointed with our experience here, we found resolve in the fact that at least the lady behind the front desk was really nice.
We then went down the road the Holiday Inn, which turned out to be our best hotel deal yet. We had a big room, with an Internet compliant phone, swimming pool, hot tub, free mini-golf, free ping-pong, and free breakfast. Not bad. John and rachel spent most of the night writing post cards, while Alex and I chipped golf balls out on the back lawn. Like most evenings we stayed up too late getting the web site all fixed up, and then the movie Sneakers had to come on the T.V. So we had to watch that. Basically we went to bed too late. I’m now approaching John’s space, so I will end here.




Day 5  [7/24/99]
From: Elk City, OK
To: Tucumcari, NM
Total Miles: 215 
Sites Seen: Tribute to Barbed Wire, Amarillo, Cadillac Ranch, Texas Trading Post, Glenrio, Tucumcari
Today's Entry By: John Raskin




day5_udropinn.jpg (7975 bytes)
John really likes the U Drop Inn Cafe so here's a picture of it.


Day five was special because we proved to ourselves that we are flexible in our itinerary, which we have been insisting to our relatives for months. Instead of staying in Vega or Amarillo, which we had expected to do, we forged on through Texas to New Mexico, where we stayed in the quasi-border town of Tucumcari. But the tale starts in Oklahoma…


We departed from the Holiday Inn in Elk City, a motel we will remember always for its miniature golf, ping pong and teenage basketball players of multiple genders who wear their jerseys everywhere, in case they forget which team they’re on. Our first event of the day was spotting a pack (herd?) of ostriches (avestruz in Spanish) who proved to be incredibly unattractive creatures. We backed the car up the road a quarter mile to get the best view, but it turns out that ostriches, despite their exotic name, are nothing more than a dark sphere with feathers, legs and a head arbitrarily thrown about it.


Then we saw a troll. Or at the very least, it was a teenager sitting under a bridge (maybe it’s a fad in Oklahoma) as we passed by. He waved. Rachel waved back. They haven’t spoken since.
There was, of course, the Devil’s Rope and Route 66 Museum. The route 66 part was self-explanatory and devil’s rope, we have learned, is "barbed wire" in south-central United States lingo. The museum was closed when we stopped by, but we managed to snap a photo between two enormous balls of barbed wire.


We then visited Lake McClellan, where we exchanged glances with bored children sitting outside an RV, and some of us waded in the water. We also heard a genuine Texan child shout "Yee-hah!" from the middle of the lake, which gave us the local flavor we had been hoping for. We then rearranged the "bumper poetry" on the side of our car to say "Please kiss me, truck child," and moved on.


day5_tributeToBarb.jpg (12778 bytes)
Later that day we proposed a toast to Barbed Wire.


day5_BakerTruck.jpg (11298 bytes)
John really likes this picture of Baker standing in the back of an old truck with a tree growing up through the hood, and Rachel said that there's also a little cactus growing by the truck, and Rachel wanted to take the picture in another old truck that you could actually get into, but Baker wanted to have the tree sticking out of the truck so rachel took the picture and here it is.


Then there was the "leaning tower of Texas," as the guidebooks call it: the Britten water tower. It was leaning a good 15-20 degrees from vertical, so Alex stood up on its base to pose for a photo. Baker got his photo, but, like the idiot he is, he leaned over as he was taking it, effectively correcting the lean of the tower but putting Alex at an awkward angle.
We discovered at approximately this point that Alex, although she has concealed it well, has no idea which one is "right" and which is "left." Her confusion may have helped us keep on track, though, because our guidebook has a similar difficulty. So two wrongs really may make a left.


The "city" of Amarillo disappointed us. We had hoped for something like Oklahoma City, where a small clump of office buildings rises out of the barren landscape to form a mini-metropolis. We had planned to stay there for the night, but we got there by lunch (Taco Villa) and decided that we didn’t want to spend more time there than was necessary. So we pressed on…


West of Amarillo we saw "Cadillac Ranch," a public art display by the interstate that consists of 10 old cars stuck halfway into the ground and covered with spray paint by all the visitors who have passed trough. We took a series of photos and painted "Shandel von Funk 99" down the side of one car, using a can of spray paint we found lying on the ground.


Near the "ranch" was the Texas Trading Post, a tourist spot off the interstate where we all bought ourselves bracelets that say "W.W.J.D." (see day 4). We figured if we were pulled over for speeding or something the driver would just lean his or her hand out the window and the police officer would look us over, decide we were local types (certainly not urban Jews; they’d never wear such a bracelet), let us off with a warning and refer us to the appropriate verse in the Bible. The situation hasn’t arisen, but we’re prepared. I also bought a small Texan flag (don’t mess with me) and Alex got herself a cowboy hat.


day5_leaningTower.jpg (8262 bytes)
Rachel was real hot back in the van.


day5_cadillacRanch.jpg (13609 bytes)
Shandel Von Funk goes down in Cadillac Ranch history.


We then crossed into New Mexico about five times in a row while we made circles around the ghost town of Glenrio, where there is supposedly a sign marking the Texas-New Mexico border. We finally gave up and continued into New Mexico, where the topography instantly changed from Texan nothingness to New Mexican desert. We all breathed a sigh of relief when we entered New Mexico (I had a one-day love affair with the state, but it was nice to leave it). We drove to Tucumcari, where we hopped from motel to motel until we found the best deal: a motel with a pool and a "suite" with comfortable living space for an excellent bargain. We can’t mention the name of the motel because we had some billing issues and we certainly don’t want to sound like we endorse them. We downed a couple of "Route 66 beers" (road-themed root beer—get it?) and watched Forget Paris until we discovered that we had stayed up too late and went to sleep to prepare for my birthday.




Day 6  [7/25/99]
From: Tucumcari, NM
To: Santa Fe, Nm
Total Miles: 167 
Sites Seen: A Big Hole, Clines Corner, Santa Fe, Bebe & Burt's, John's Birthday
Today's Entry By: Alex Franke




day6_weirdSculpture.jpg (8407 bytes)
It is a well-known fact that cattle will climb stairs but never descend.


The day got off to a normal start. We woke up and each beat John with our pillows eighteen times for his birthday. We packed our bags and reported to the front desk for our free breakfast. On the way out to the car John discovered that Rachel and I had set up a spider web in the van for his birthday. For those who don’t know, a spider web is like a birthday party game. Each person is given the end of a piece of string and must follow it around the van. The strings run all over the place and get tangled, which is half the fun. At the end of everyone’s string is a prize. We all got a nice little book with a string to hang around our necks. They are silly.
After loading the car John went back to the desk to check out. When he returned to the car, he said, "well everything’s fine except for $87.12 in phone bills. Apparently in the state of New Mexico just because a number has the same area code as your location doesn’t mean that it is a local call. As a result, our four to five hours of computer time was charged as long distance. Nuts!        


day6_bumperPoetry.jpg (6654 bytes)
Rachel argues with Vipin Bhakal.


day6_hole.jpg (9222 bytes)
We shall never speak of this shortcut again.


After a disheartening moment we decided to get on our favorite road and tour some classic 66. This would require some time on poorly maintained roads but we were up for the challenge. Rachel started out driving and we had a little trouble finding the road to begin with. Finally we found our road which was paved with what our book described as "broken pavement." After some rough bumps and dirt-covered areas we thought we had mastered this bitch of a road. The road, however, would not let us win and she tricked us in to going too fast, which caused us to fishtail. Rachel handled the situation very well and made sure to "turn into the skid." A little shaken-up but okay, Rachel continued to drive. We drove with more caution now which was a good thing because we narrowly missed a road-wide twenty-foot deep hole in the road. This part of the road looked like it used to be a bridge, and water that ran underneath the bridge ate away at the road almost al the way across. We considered trying to squeeze past on the "shoulder" but upon inspecting the hole, we decided not to. Simply the weight of our bodies on the edge of the hole caused large chunks of asphalt to fall into the hole. After we each selected a piece of road as a memento of our near-death experience we pulled U-ey and went back to the interstate. Our guidebook did mention a hole in the road, but it was written a few years ago when we supposed the road was in fact passable.


After that trauma we were okay except for the large pink snake we almost ran over a little later. We ate lunch at a place called Restaurant, and looked at some items at Clines’ Corners, a large cheesy market of sorts. We basically just used their ATM.


Next we moved on to Santa Fe. There we met Bebe and Burt Krimmer. Bebe is Cynthia’s cousin, so after much deliberation we figured that Bebe was John’s first cousin once removed. First Burt took us to his local driving range where we smacked some golf balls for a while. Apparently I am not as good at hitting the ball off grass as off a tee.


day6_santaRosa.jpg (13195 bytes)
I think Rachel is actually smiling, but it sure didn't seem like it at the time.


day6_BebeAndBurts.jpg (15476 bytes)
Swinging on the Krimmers' patio.


Back at the house there was a dinner table set up on Bebe and Burt's beautiful patio. Bebe whipped up an amazing dinner while Burt manned the grill. It was cool outside for the first time on the trip and we got very excited to be able to wear pants for the first time. We started off with chips and salsa and cheese and crackers. Then we had a birthday barbecue for John with ribs and chicken, and corn on the cob, with sides of grilled green beans with pine nuts and garlic, and some delicious bread. For dessert Bebe brought out a great-looking Black Forest cake which Burt picked out. The cake was really good, especially with some vanilla ice cream.
The four of us spent the rest of the night out on the patio writing postcards and updating our web site. It was a gorgeous night and the lights of Santa Fe glowed in the distance.        


day6_blow.jpg (11748 bytes)
John attempts to extinguish Baker's middle finger (Bebe is far left).






Day 7  [7/27/99]
From : Santa Fe, NM
To : Williams, AZ
Total Miles : 400 
Sites Seen : Albuquerque, Los Lunas, The Desert, Flagstaff, Williams, Sketchy Buffalo, Petrified Forest/Painted Desert, Twin Arrows
Today's Entry By : Rachel Caplan




day7_middleFinger.jpg (8036 bytes)
Albuquerque.


Today was a beautiful day. Not much happened today. We didn’t see much today except really pretty things. The insanity that normally reaches us around ten or eleven at night has begun to hit me around noon. Suddenly going fast down steep hills, or passing other cars along the road has provided me with many laughs. The others look at me with fright; I just keep laughing.
So we woke up this morning in Santa Fe. Bebe sent us out of the house with our cooler and snackbox filled. Alex started behind the wheel and we were on our way to Williams, AZ. After having a bit of trouble leaving the city we made our way to Albuquerque. We liked it there because it was a populated city and it was "pretty." There were many pink and beige buildings and turquoise lamp posts.


We then crossed the Rio Grande. We rode along the Rio Grande and then through some valleys. The valleys were pretty. As we drove further we saw some huge canyon-like holes in the ground. They were pretty. We drove on more pretty roads that John, Alex, and Baker thought would be really cool to drive on in a convertible. I didn’t think it would be. At this point in the ride John began to remind me much of my father as he successfully yelled at us to slow down at least once every five minutes (that adds up to at least 120 times in the day). But we can’t blame him too much; we did drive down some windy roads with steep hills. They were very pretty.


For lunch we stopped at Lotaburger. This made me happy. Since all we wanted to do was use their picnic tables Baker and John went to buy a soda and fries, that way we wouldn’t get kicked out. For dessert we got to eat the yummy cookies that John’s mom sent him for his birthday.


day7_4atPetrifiedForest.jpg (15342 bytes)
The four of us stand above a forest, and John points out that, "IT'S PETRIFIED!"


day7_cliff.jpg (9823 bytes)
So all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years; and he died. - Genesis 5:17


John’s still feeling sick and it’s beginning to affect his appetite. He’s not enjoying the food so much. Poor John.


We saw sheep today. I have no clue where we were, but I like seeing animals on the road. There were black sheep, also, so Alex and I sang Baa Baa Black Sheep. Unfortunately we couldn’t remember who the three bags of wool were for. All we could remember was that the last one was for the little man who lived down the lane.


At 3:17 we drove under a rain cloud. At 3:20 we drove out of it. Right outside of Gallup it was really pretty. At the border of NM/AZ we stopped at our first attraction of the day to see the "cave" Buffalo. We had to enter through some small shop run by Indians. A small (even shorter than me) lady led us out the back to an open area. She told us to just follow the signs. As we walked along a path signs read "CAUTION: STAY ON THE PATH" and "WE ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY ACCIDENTS". When we got to the Buffalo they were nasty and smelly. There were two buffalo standing together licking rocks. We were rather disgusted. This was not so pretty.


We finally went over a hill that made us get butterflies in our stomach. I loved it. John hated it [Ed. note: white knuckles do not denote hatred]. We drove through a dip that had a creek running through it.


day7_lunch.jpg (8862 bytes)
Rachel and Alex block a perfectly good picture of a mountain. 


day7_teepee.jpg (6979 bytes)
Alex is thwarted once again by Buffalo-resistent TeePees.


We paid ten dollars to go through the Painted Desert and Petrified Forest. That was pretty, though. One time Alex and I wanted to climb one of the little hills so we asked the boys to come pick us up on the other side. While it was very pretty on top, getting down on the other side was a different story. But I had fun.


We, especially I, sang a lot today in the car.


At 5:45 we entered a big storm with lots of lightning. It was pretty. Baker taught me all about lightning so I wasn’t as scared as I would normally be, so I could appreciate how pretty it was. A little bit later we were out of the storm.


We drove through Twin Arrows. This is a town we heard about in all of our books. There wasn’t much there except for the twin arrows. So we took our pictures. We also saw our first sign for L.A. today. It said "LOS ANGELES 487" I got very excited.


All of a sudden we went from the desert to a lush forest as we were entering Flagstaff. We ate dinner in Flagstaff at Miz Zip’s. The town was very nice. I wasn’t too happy with Miz Zip’s because they didn’t have the soup or chili that I wanted. So I ate my daily Grilled Cheese. John, on the other hand, felt healthy enough to eat and really enjoyed his food. I did like the bouncy balls they sold in the quarter machine in the lobby.


We really liked the temperature here. It got down to 69 degrees. We were very excited about that.


We spent the night at El Rancho in Williams, AZ. Somehow we managed to find the hotel that all the ghetto bootie teenagers stayed at. It provided us with much entertainment. We attempted to go to bed early so we could get started earlier the next day. So we went to bed.


day7_twinArrows.jpg (8672 bytes)
Baker and Alex pose with debris in the road.




Day 8  [7/28/99]
From : Williams, AZ
To : Needles, CA
Total Miles : 250
Sites Seen : Grand Canyon, Williams, Seligman, The Mountains, Flash Floods, Oatman, The Cowboy
Today's Entry By : Baker Franke




day8_canyon.jpg (9584 bytes)
If instead of being just a big hole, the Grand Canyon were a pit of dinosaurs then they'd probably call it 'Dinosaur Canyon'


Today started in a fashion that I suppose we’re getting used to: with a four-foot high, non-draining shower. This seems to be the norm for cheap hotels. But I just don’t understand why paying less for a room means that the showerhead is as high as your large intestine. Anyway, the El Rancho Motel in Williams, AZ, was by far our least pleasurable hotel experience. It didn’t matter, though, as we headed out early, 8:25 (pretty darn early for teenagers), on our way to the Grand Canyon – about 50 miles north of Williams.


The weather this morning was surprisingly cool, mid to high 60s, and was also somewhat disappointing as we drove through our second day of rain. As we kept ascending, to about 8,500 feet, the temperature actually dropped below 60 degrees. This is approximately half , in degrees, the temperatures we experienced in Oklahoma. There was also construction on the road. So much construction, in fact, that there was a "pilot" truck to lead cars through the mess. We found the pilot truck very amusing, mostly because of the large sign attached to it that read, "PILOT CAR. FOLLOW ME!" I know, we’re scraping the bottom of the humor barrel here, but sometimes we get desperate for a laugh.


Luckily we got the canyon early enough that there weren’t 80 billion people there yet. There were more people than we had seen at any other attraction, though. Here we confirmed our hypothesis that no tourist in the United States speaks English as a first language. It’s just kind of frustrating because we’re always excited to listen to people other than ourselves and we can’t even understand what they’re saying.


Of course, the canyon was gorgeous. When we arrived there was still mist rising off the far rim – ah, beautiful. So, we drove from lookout point to lookout point and admired the canyon, mostly in silence since we were pretty tired. Our final stop was at Grandview Point, where we hiked down the canyon a piece and sat on a protruding rock to take in the view -very satisfying. At 11:00 we decided it was time to go even though we were somewhat disappointed that we couldn’t stay longer. The canyon, though, was everything that I’d hoped it would be. If you haven’t been, go. If anyone needs a ticket ours, is good for a week.  Just send us a line.


day8_lunch.jpg (11495 bytes)
We ate lunch in the 1950s.


day8_LAChicagoTruck.jpg (10612 bytes)
We finally find something more accurate and detailed than our guidebook.


So, we headed back to Williams. On our way back we witnessed the Changing of the Pilot with our very eyes. John was excited to point out that the first "pilot" was "a chickie pilot." We’re not sure exactly why that was so thrilling, but when John’s happy, we’re happy so no qualms. The other item of note on our drive back to Williams was that we saw, and I’m not making this up, a solar-powered car. It was about 18 inches off the ground, was big enough for one person – lying down, was aerodynamically shaped, and had solar panels all over it. It went by quickly so we’re not sure that we actually saw what was just described but that’s what it must have been.
Back in Williams it continued to rain, hard. We stopped for lunch, along with a Las Vegas tour bus complete with flight attendant, at a little throwback fifties malt shop called Twister. We got a pretty good meal at a pretty reasonable price so we were content. The restaurant also had a great gift shop with many Route 66 items that we hadn’t seen. We didn’t get anything…until we went to the Route 66 gift shop at the end of town. The proprietors of this store are also the editors and publishers of Route 66 Magazine. The back of the store has a lot of high falootin’ computer equipment that we’re supposed to believe they use to create said publication. ("Falootin’" gets corrected to "fallopian" in spellcheck if you’re not careful). The store itself was pretty high fallopian too. It appeared as though they had a bunch of their own Route 66 stuff made up. They had a catalogue? Anyway, I bought 8 replica Route 66 shields - one for each state. John also found a T-shirt that had the mantra we have been living by for the past week printed on the back: "Friends don’t let friends drive the interstate." We blew some money, but it’s getting near the end of the trip and we’re getting nostalgic already.




From Williams we continued on to Seligman, AZ. Seligman has had a lot of press recently, most notably a People Magazine article that featured Angel Delgadillo, a barber who is also the founder of the Route 66 Association of Arizona (we’re not exactly sure if that means anything, but it looks good on his resume). Anyway, Seligman and Angel were everything we’d hoped they’d be. We walked into Angel’s little store to find him actually cutting somebody’s hair. His store also has a vintage Route 66 feel to it, that being dirty which makes it feel authentic, which it is. We were also delighted to find that Angel is REALLY NICE and not at all senile like we feared he might be. He was genuinely happy to talk and pose for pictures with us. He put a smile on all of our faces on a rainy day (awww). Angel’s brother Juan also runs a little hotdog stand-type place down the street. The stand is most notable for the practical jokes that Juan plays on you during your visit. For example, the door has a doorknob on each side of the door. We were entertained.        


day8_angel.jpg (17204 bytes)
above: Angel chops up an Austrian.  below: Angel can try, but John's loyal to Phil Balick.


day8_juans.jpg (11317 bytes)
Juan Delgadillo's Snow Cap in Seligman


Here we decided that we would blow through Kingman, AZ, and continue on to Needles, CA, to get a head start on tomorrow. So we continued on the road toward Needles, which provided for some of the most fantastic and nerve-wracking driving we’ve had yet. The best way I can describe it is to tell you to look at the pictures. To say the least the road was extremely curvy and we never exceeded 25 mph. Did I mention that it had rained? Well, apparently over in these parts they had something just short of a monsoon, and it appeared, (wouldn’t you know it – for the ten people who will really appreciate this) the area had experienced a flash flood. The road up in the mountains did not show much evidence of this except for many rock fragments that had tumbled onto the road. Along the way we also drove over many…well…rivers whose path flowed over the road. Interesting way to plan a road, but we took it in stride. Luckily for all of us, John (the owner of the van) drove this stretch. It somewhat understates John’s actual mental state to say that he was a nervous wreck for this stint through the hills. We could only imagine that it would be worse if he were backseat driving so we sat back and let him take it like a man. And that’s all I have to say about that.


day8_flashfloodSign.jpg (8998 bytes)
Cynthia Raskin will use this as ammunition for years to come.


So, after about 30 miles of these crazy mountain roads, which seems like an eternity at 20 mph, we finally pulled into Oatman. Oatman was an old mining town and it still looks that way today even though the mine is shut down and the population has depleted significantly. The buildings don’t look like they’ve changed since the Wild West days - there is a general store, a saloon, and a hotel which really look like they’re straight out of a movie. The fact that there had just recently been a flash flood which covered the main street of town with mud and rocks just added to the authenticity of the place.


At the end of town we pulled over and stopped because we had to call the hotel in Kingman to cancel the reservation. While John dealt with the reservations I walked to the other end of town, about 100 yards, and took pictures. Meanwhile, Rachel walked across the street to a place called Cactus Joe’s to get some "Indian Fry Bread." As I walked back toward the van I saw Rachel beckoning me to come into Cactus Joe’s.


First, I must pause to say that Cactus Joe’s is one of the more amazing things that I’ve seen in my life. Cactus Joe’s is really a bar with a small seating area in the back. It’s genuine old west material. The floor is sawdust, the bar is mostly plywood, any windows on the place are dirty and only dim light shines through. Please look at the picture of the old cowboy to the right. Yes, folks, that is an old genuine cowboy siting at the bar. Yes, those boots are worn so thin you can’t even believe they're still on his feet. Yes, that’s a rawhide vest worn to black in the back and on the shoulders. Yes, that’s a handkerchief around his neck. Yes, that face has been worn as thick as leather. Yes, it’s hard to distinguish how much of that shadow is scruff and how much is dirt. Yes, that’s a cowboy hat. Yes, that’s a cigarette he's rolling. Yes, that’s some sort of pink-orange swill in a glass in front of him. And yes, oh yes, that’s a six shooter hanging from his hip – loaded. We didn’t say anything. So he looked over at us city slickers, mouths agape, and naturally said, "Howdy" and tipped his hat. Someone managed to say howdy in return but the rest of us just stared. I couldn’t, and still can’t, believe that he wasn’t an act, some show put on for the folks who pass through town when it’s raining. But he was the real deal. Our only regret was that we didn’t try to talk to him more, but we left Oatman feeling satisfied that we got a genuine taste of old Route 66.        


day8_cowboy.jpg (15972 bytes)
We finally understand how Billy Crystal felt.


day8_vanOnRoad.jpg (10192 bytes)
You can almost here John's teeth grinding from here.


There are two roads out of Oatman; one was closed due to flooding. The road we needed to take, 66 of course, was not closed. This did not mean, however, that the road was clear. Let’s just say it’s a good thing that John continued to drive. As we left Oatman, the weather started to clear up, the sun came out and the temperature rose. As we came out of the mountains we went through a town called Golden Shores, AZ (which I am still convinced was in CA), where we saw our first palm tree. Somewhere outside Golden Shores we had to backtrack east to get back on the interstate, which meant, to our surprise, that we had to re-enter Arizona which meant that we had entered California somewhere which is why I thought that we actually saw our first palm tree in California.
 
We continued on the interstate until we got to Needles. Needles is interesting because it seems to be a place where people can stay cheaply even though they really want to be in Laughlin, NV – swimming pools, movie stars, gambling. But we were content even without Laughlin. We had big plans for the evening which all went down the drain when we all basically fell asleep, especially John who was taxed from the tough driving around the rims of mountains. ‘Twas the rim that done him in. We had two rooms in Needles so everyone got a big queen-size bed all to themselves.


The day being concluded we learned two things: 1.) for some reason when in John’s van we cannot help but evade the divine plan for us to die. Coincidence that we just missed a flash flood that covered/wiped out areas that we drove through not minutes after it had subsided? I think not. 2.) We must have been nuts to let John drive for that long through all of that. Good thing he did, though.


day8_crashedVan.jpg (14534 bytes)
"Good thing Baker wasn't driving."
"Shut up, John!"


Day 9  [7/29/99]
From : Needles, CA
To : Santa Monica, CA
Total Miles : 267 
Sites Seen : not much, THE OCEAN!, ...                                              
Today's Entry By : John Raskin




day9_graffiti.jpg (10365 bytes)
Palm Springus geriatris, the elusive Desert Republican, strikes again.


We awoke relatively early in Needles, California, I with my morning sickness and Baker with his morning ugliness. We set out to find closure in our trek through the heart of America: a triumphant arrival to the west coast, greeting throngs of cheering Angelinos (Santa Monikers?) confused by our Illinois license plate and proud declaration of "California or Bucket." Instead, we found ourselves perplexed by Southern California, a rare combination of two forms of lifelessness: the desert and the suburbs.


Our first stop was the desert community of Amboy, referred to as a "desert community" because "ghost town" is a bit harsh (it does have an operational post office). Just west of town we passed the section of desert where people traditionally write their names, initials or short messages in the sand with rocks. We wrote "Shandel" just to the right of "Timoch," which is further proof that nobody who drives Route 66 speaks English.


We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the drugs  began to take hold. I remember saying something like "I feel a bit lightheaded; maybe you should drive..." And suddenly there was a terrible roar all around us and the sky was full of what looked like huge bats,all swooping and screeching and diving around the car, which was going  about a hundred miles an hour with the top down to Las Vegas. And a voice was screaming: "Holy Jesus! What are these goddamn animals?"


We stopped in Barstow for lunch and ate at "Gil’s for Fine Dining," a restaurant that occupies an awkward space with a high ceiling and a stage clumsily converted into, well, a former stage. Our waitress, when asked how she was, explained that she was "fat-legged and sassy, thank you," and she gave us sandwiches that were three parts mayonnaise to one part meat.


The next part of our day was incredibly stressful due to poor directions. Our book, which had earlier referred to an interstate entrance as an "exit," forgot to mention to get on the interstate in Victorville. So we followed the directions in the book and ended up circling around a parking lot until we decided just to head west and see what happened (the compass in the ceiling of the car has been our most useful instrument). We got on I-215 into San Bernadino and skipped ahead in our directions to where it said to get off at Devore Street and make a left. We did, and the road circled up into the hills, past some grazing livestock (llamas, we suspect), and back to where we started. So we figured maybe the book meant "right" when it said "left," a mistake it has made more than once, and we ended up at the entrance to a national park, possibly owned by Blockbuster Corporation. These things happen in California. The woman at the national park entrance, who was eager to get back to the phone where she was discussing her recent failure to meet a friend at the mall, explained that the book, when it said "left," had actually meant "straight."


day9_Shandel.jpg (9245 bytes)
Well, you can see the "S"


day9_lunch.jpg (11288 bytes)
"Let's see 15% of $19.87...1.98 divided by two...carry the one...No wait!"


So we drove into San Bernadino, which is suburban, and we called Laurie Raskin, who we would be staying with that evening, to ask her what time she needed us for dinner. Laurie’s answer was "for God’s sake, get on the interstate!" So we did, and we followed L.A.’s freeway system toward Santa Monica, where we exited early to finish the last mile or two on Route 66. We blasted "Get Your Kicks On Route 66" from our CD player and reached the corner of Santa Monica Blvd. and Ocean Blvd. at 26,741 on the odometer—exactly 2,709 miles after we started in Chicago. We pulled into a 15-minute parking space and ran to the beach to touch the water and take photographic proof that we reached the Pacific without bucketing.


Fifteen minutes later, we were back on Ocean Boulevard and headed to Westwood, which is about 5 miles away (2 hours by freeway). We pulled up to the house at the same time as Laurie, who had with her, my sister Julie Raskin and her son Alec. The double arrival led to circuit overload for my friends as they were introduced to thousands of relatives at once and we had to keep introducing Baker to people because he was incapable of doing it himself. He listened to each person’s name and never realized that he needed to tell them his own. Alec skipped the introductions and dove directly for my stomach.


And so began the first period under the rule of Alec. At six years old and 62 pounds, Alec knows no timidity, shyness or social restraint, and is able to monopolize a conversation more effectively than a member of the Simmons family. He showed us his energy, his room, his SuperSoaker™, his energy, and his ability to do accents. Best of all, he referred to Baker as "Chef," which is more subtle mockery than we are capable of.


Laurie prepared me a second birthday dinner, which means my relatives are 2 for 2 so far. We had pasta, which Rachel had been craving since mid-Oklahoma, and a birthday cake that Alec picked out. The candle played a high-pitched, electronic "Happy Birthday to You," and Laurie wouldn’t let me blow out the candle until it went through its third and final cycle of the song. She then realized that Alec had been out of the room for the candle ceremony, so she re-lit the candle and it shrieked "happy birthday" three more times.


day9_pier.jpg (12653 bytes)
We came for the fishing, but we stay for the boating 


day9_beach2.jpg (8350 bytes)
You know, we consider ourselves bi-coastal...if you consider Lake Michigan one of the coasts.


Once our ears recovered, we debated which movie to go to and ended up wandering around Westwood eating ice cream and listening to Baker complain about Los Angeles. He acknowledged that the weather was beautiful, Laurie and Rick’s house was gorgeous, and the food is good, but he can’t stand the city. Something about the woman in the ice cream shop and how she’s "typical."


We had Julie with us, so we went back to her room (and mom’s) in their hotel in Westwood (of course Julie and mom are in Westwood the same two days we are). We fell asleep to E.R. until my mother came back and freaked out because her goal had been to avoid us while we are here for fear of "ruining our trip." So she hugged us, gossiped to us and sent us on our way back to Laurie’s, where we did things very quietly to avoid waking Alec.


Alec was asleep, which gave us less of a relaxed feeling than one of being in the eye of the storm. There was an eerie calm, but we could hear trees being uprooted, houses flying by, witches bicycling, etc., and we knew that he would return.






Day 10  [7/30/99]
From : Westwood, CA
To : Encino, CA
Total Miles : 5-10 
Sites Seen : Santa Monica Pier, 3rd Street, Jay Raskin's House
Today's Entry By : Alex Franke




day10_cpk.jpg (11886 bytes)
Baker and Alex stakeout a suspicious Los Angeles C.P.K.


Ah… Finally a day when we didn’t have to get up or be anywhere. We took advantage of this fact by waking up at about ten, with some exception . According to the boys, Cousin Alec came into their room (which was actually his room) at about 8:00, after they were both awake, and attached his toy construction equipment to their ears and noses to try to lift them out of bed.
After packing our stuff up and saying good bye to Laurie, Rick, Alec and Matt, we set off for our day in L.A. We began with lunch at the California Pizza Kitchen in Brentwood, where things were pretty much the same as they are in Chicago except that there is outdoor seating. The seating was lovely. The weather was perfect. The only problem was that a large prehistoric bug was for some reason very attracted to John’s pizza, which is funny because I had the same pizza as John, but the bug didn't want mine. It was a blue-green scarab looking bug. The waiters had a fun time disposing of the bug. While one of the waiters dealt with the animal, the other said, "You are so brave to do that."        


day10_3rdStreet.jpg (14365 bytes)
Unbeknownst to Rachel, who's taking this photo, the fountain to the right was really peeing on us a lot.


day10_pier.jpg (9430 bytes)
All pier action, all the time.


After lunch we retrieved our car from the free valet, a new concept to us, and parked it for free in another public parking lot on Broadway in Santa Monica. We cruised the Third Street Promenade, perused the candy store, and watched the street musicians. We walked out on the pier and gazed at the ocean, before gladly driving to Jay Raskin’s house to relax at his pool.
Jay lives up in the hills of L.A. with a beautiful view of the valley. We met his housekeeper, Irma, and her son, and then we fled for the pool. There was an inflated whale in the pool that Rachel, Baker, and I played with. John, who chose not to swim, later jousted with the whale. Baker, his opponent, was manned with a sponge.


At about seven o’clock Jay came home and took us out to dinner at a great French restaurant called Bezou. We spent all of dinner talking to Jay and hearing about his company which is funding research for AIDS prevention. It was all really very interesting. After dinner we rented Waiting for Guffman once again. Our constant quoting of the film caused us to need to rent it again. I will not stand for misquoting, and I demanded that people get it straight. Well, not really, but that’s the story that I like to tell.


day10_piggyBack.jpg (12997 bytes)
John finally captures a roaming Alexian Buffalo 


day10_jaysPool.jpg (11809 bytes)
Jay's Pool, complete with Shamu.


We returned to Jay’s, and started the movie, but shortly stopped it so that Baker could call Parv. After calling Parv we learned that she had been expecting us that day. Oops. We tried to figure out where the mix-up occurred, but failed. Baker felt really bad, but was cheered up by the movie. John and Rachel fell asleep to the movie, and Baker finished up his computer things. Nighty Night.




Day 11  [7/31/99]
From : Los Angeles, CA
To : Mt. Madonna, CA
Total Miles : 380 
Sites Seen : The 5, Mount Madonna, Santa Cruz
Today's Entry By : Rachel Caplan




SORRY - There will be a lack of pictures for today since we forgot to bring the camera to Santa Cruz.


Today we got back on the road again. This is the first time dared to travel without the help of our brown "historic Route 66" signs, old telephone poles, or our extremely "helpful" guide book. It was quite frightening leaving Encino this morning, and upsetting, but we didn’t get too far before we lost ourselves in the middle of Gilroy, CA on our way to Parvati Fisher’s and automatically felt at home. Fortunately, we have become expert navigators (or so we like to believe) and we quickly got out of the mess and continued on to Mt. Madonna. To actually arrive there we had to climb up a big hill (or a mountain as they like to call them out here in the west). Even though at the beginning we did see a sign depicting a truck virtually perpendicular to the ground warning us this road was nothing compared to the one Parv later drove us down.
Questions: Who is this crazy Parvati I speak of?


Answer: not Jesus Christ our Lord but Baker’s girlfriend. Parvati Fisher commonly known as Parv is Baker’s girlfriend from Amherst. She lives at the Mt. Madonna Center Commune in Watsonville, CA. (Watsonville is just minutes away from Santa Cruz). The commune is 360 acres. There are between 75 and 100 residents (it fluctuates) and will increase it’s population greatly next week when 500 Quakers arrive.


day11_jaysHouse.JPG (12681 bytes)
Proof that we have met and know the whereabouts of one Jay Raskin.


day11_bunny.JPG (11610 bytes)
A vicious bunny comes out of nowhere and attacks an innocent blueberry in Rachel's hand. Poor thing.


So we arrived at the commune around 3:30 and met Parv at the entrance. She brought us to the cabin we would be staying in. She showed us our rooms and we settled. Shortly after we received a tour from the experienced campus tour guide Parv, who unfortunately did not walk backwards for us. We went to the C.B., which might stand for Center Building, or it should, that’s what it means more or less though. Inside we met the Kitchen Ladies, who work in the kitchen. Word has it that they’re the people you need to get in good with because they’re the ones who’ll give you all the good gossip and let you eat out of the fridge.


After our tour we returned to our cabin. There we were greeted by Devaki, Parv’s mom. She visited with us for a while. Once she left we left too. We headed down the crazy, twisty, turny road that I spoke of earlier. We went into Santa Cruz. There we ate dinner at Pleasure Point Pizza. I enjoyed my food but was disappointed because they did not have the Spicy Plum Chicken. The lady told me that I could have the BBQ chicken. When I asked , the obnoxious man next to me shouted "chicken". I would have slugged him but he weighed about four times my weight so I decided against it. Instead I ate something else that had artichokes. It was pretty good. Afterwards we went to down town Sata Cruz for dessert and to walk around some. We all, shockingly, were tired and so we called it an early night and headed home. Yeah, I guess our days are becoming shorter and shorter. We seem to be going to sleep earlier and earlier. We have less energy and are lacking "sex and violence" says a fan. We’re just kids. Don’t expect much, and love what you get. Till next time……
Love, Rachel


day11_cabin.JPG (11971 bytes)
The van took this picture so we are not responsible for who may be in the photo.




Day 12  [8/1/99]
From : Mt. Madonna, CA
To : San Francisco, CA/nowhere
Total Miles : 110 
Sites Seen : Parv, Pacific Coast Highway, San Francisco, Pritzker House
Today's Entry By : John Raskin




day12_alcatraz.jpg (8248 bytes)
John and Rachel prepare to swim to Alcatraz.


We woke up on the commune, of course, and fed rabbits, communed with nature and talked to Parv until mid-morning, when we set out on the coastal highway to San Francisco. The views of the Pacific were beautiful and the highway was full of bicyclers, but we made it to the city in time to miss our exit and drive directly into miles of mid-day traffic in south-central San Francisco. Following John Pritzker’s detailed directions, we made it to his house without issue and parked across the street, narrowly avoiding some alleged water balloons allegedly thrown off some roof, although certainly nobody was home at the time, especially not Adam Pritzker and his friends.
Upon request, Adam directed us to lunch at Pasta Pomodoro, which IS the Pasta Bowl, and we returned to the house to unpack and figure out our afternoon. In the end, we spent the day thanking God we had our brakes checked back in Chicago, because when we drove vertically up Divisidero, hit the highest point in the world, teetered, and plummeted down the other side, we realized that somebody accidentally built the city on a mountain range. If you are keeping track of the website, please note that I was driving on Oatman Road and Divisidero Street, and I am adding a photo of the brake pedal to my wallet collection.        


day12_sanFranStreet.jpg (10345 bytes)
No, it's really steep...guess you had to be there


Alex, Rachel and I walked around the marina park and watched the Golden Gate Bridge exist for a little while, which was exciting. We then watched Alcatraz not exist in the center of the bay and repeated to each other "Was the Bay Bridge fogged in last night? Yes! Ba-doomp, ba-doomp," which is a quote from the movie Sneakers . We later got to drive on the Bay Bridge, although we never got closer to the Golden Gate than we were at that moment, which was disappointing.


When we returned to the house we wandered around examining photos of their extended family, which was remarkably similar to browsing through a Parker yearbook, until my cousin Lisa came home and forced us to explain why it was entertaining that Ben Pritzker’s going to Pitzer. We talked about family, school, earthquakes and how stupid we were to attempt 700 miles in the car the next day. When John came home, he reiterated the stupidity point and I tried to explain how I ended up working for the government of Mexico.


We ordered in Chinese for dinner and discussed things that make us cringe (we think it’s genetic) and tried once again to decipher the Stone family tree. Apparently I’m a generation older than Adam, who is three years younger than I am and is in a band. He writes some of their music, which Lisa says is really interesting "once you get past some of the words." We also got to hear Sam’s English accent, which may or may not come from Spiceworld , the Spice Girls’ movie. Sam Pritzker became the second in a series of brilliant six-year-olds we encountered on this trip, except for Sam’s a step ahead of Alec because he has the autographs of both Bashful and Dopey. He also has a Beanie Baby collection and can quote the exact value of the doll Katie Nordine gave me for Christmas three years ago, except that over the course of our conversation its price fluctuated between $70 and $5,900. But he was pretty sure about his final answer.


As Pritzkers fell asleep around us, we retreated to the basement, where we watched Bewitched (bad Darren) and tried to work the VCR, which is hidden in a cabinet along with a control panel that must control the power grid of San Francisco or something, because they were machines we certainly had never seen. So we left it on television until our eyes closed, at which point we went to sleep.


Day 13  [8/2/99]
From: San Francisco, CA
To: Evanston, WY
Total Miles: 850 
Sites Seen: California, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming
Today's Entry By: John Raskin




No Stop.  No Pictures
"Monday: a million miles from Illinois"


Parv made the biggest sacrifice as the new week began. She woke up at the crack of dawn to drive Baker up to San Francisco in time for us to leave as dawn continued to crack. But such are the trials of love.


Meanwhile, I awoke from the most peaceful sleep ever in the most comfortable bed ever and stumbled down to the basement to wake the girls, who decided to play Ignore the Messenger. So I turned on the lights, which hurt me as much as it hurt them, and went back upstairs to pick water balloon pieces (hmm…) out of the shower and get ready for our daunting trek eastward.


Parv dropped Baker off promptly and we headed out over the Bay Bridge ("Was the Bay Bridge fogged in last night? Yes! Ba-doomp, ba-doomp") and turned toward Sacramento, which Matt Shuman in L.A. had warned us is not much of a city. Somewhere in Sacramento, however, I-80 escaped from under us and we discovered about 20 or 30 miles east of town that we were on California Highway 50. So we cut up on California 49, which of course was mountainous with hairpin curves because I was driving. After that delay, however, we continued westward on I-80 for approximately 600 miles through the most eerie region of the nation.


First of all, Nevada was constructed for the sole purpose of air force training. And gambling. Highway advertisements said stuff like "Next stop: Burger King w/playlot and casino." We passed through Reno, the Biggest Little City in Sister Act, and managed to keep a tight grip on I-80 all the way through town. The rest of Nevada was exactly the shade of brown we expected.


We hear there are a lot of Mormons in Utah. Maybe they’re hiding under the salt. From our perspective, as we passed into Utah the highway became a straight line through the Alaskan tundra although the temperature hovered around 90. Apparently, somebody poured a hell of a lot of salt all over the state, and at certain points in the salt they put cities and mysterious spots that glow in the night. They also put on a lightning show for us, which stayed just a few miles ahead of us until I started driving.


Then we called my dad to tell him we were staying in Park City, just east of Salt Lake City. So we drove to Park City, and we kept on driving until we ended up in Wyoming about an hour later. But don’t tell my dad.


Day 14  [8/3/99]
From: Evanston, WY
To: Boulder, CO
Total Miles: approx. 500 
Sites Seen: Wyoming...more Wyoming, Colorado, Men with Guns
Today's Entry By: Alex Franke




day4_treeTunnel.jpg (13379 bytes)
The Gang in front of the Walkers' in Boulder


After leisurely departing Evanston, Wyoming, we drove. We stopped for lunch in Laramie and continued south to Boulder. Wyoming was noted for its large green rolling hills and randomly placed ten- to twelve-foot fences that served no discernable purpose. The structures were located in the middle of vast, hilly fields, but their ends were not attached to any other fence or structure. There were dozens of straight-line fences, varying in length, in the middle of nowhere. We thought maybe they were used to block wind or to assist in cattle driving, but that was just naive urban speculation. Anyway, that was about all we saw in Wyoming.


We rolled into Boulder at about 4:30. Sarah and David Walker, aged 14 and 9 respectively, were there to greet us and offer beverages. There are a whole lot of people mentioned in this next section so try to keep up. After driving for many hours we opted for a change of pace and sat motionless in the Walker living room, as opposed to the car. James Walker, the father, arrived shortly thereafter to offer us deadbeats some activities for the late afternoon. In the usual fashion we decided not to go anywhere, but just to relax and utilize that gigantic closetful of games in the basement. Next Priscilla Walker, the mother, arrived after picking up some other relatives, a relationship I choose not to explain, from their ice skating lessons. Then came Bill Baker, brother to Priscilla and Pam (Baker’s and my mother), and uncle to Sarah, David, Baker and me. Finally came Robin, wife of Bill, and aunt to...well, you figure it out.


After some chitchat and delicious hors d'oveurs we exited to the patio for a wonderful home cooked meal, one of few on the trip. We had grilled chicken, fried rice, broccoli and a shrimp salad. For dessert, blueberry and rhubarb pies with two kinds of ice cream. After-dinner activities included a ping pong tournament and a rousing game of poker with Bill. We used plastic army men, airplanes, and pennies as betting devices. The poker stopped when David had to go to bed, and John, Sarah, Baker, Bill and I proceeded to act very maturely by trying to fly our plastic planes into each other’s breast pockets. We continued this activity for longer than should be revealed.  We were all exhausted and we found it amusing. By about 11:00 p.m. we were settling down for bed.  John, Rachel, Baker and I played catch with a glow-in-the-dark ball for a while, and then dozed off.


Day 15 [8/4/99]
From: Boulder, CO
To: Chicago, IL [yeah, that's right]
Total Miles: 1015
Sites Seen: Colorado, Nebraska, Corn, Iowa, Corn, Illinois, Corn, Chicago
Today's Entry By: John Raskin




day4_treeTunnel.jpg (13379 bytes)
The Gang in front of the Walker's in Boulder


Day 15
We successfully operated on the very Franke theory that all emotions are better left unstated, and we all pretended that we didn’t care where Day 15 took us, as long as it was somewhere toward Chicago. Still, in the back of our mind from the beginning of the day was the idea that somehow, no matter how painful, or how boring, or how much corn we’d have to pass, we were going to make it to Chicago that day. Except for Rachel. Rachel didn’t want to drive that much, which is why we avoided the topic of destination until mid-Iowa.


We headed out from Boulder leisurely in the morning, took I-76 to I-80, and drove for hundreds and hundreds of miles. Sometimes we saw teenagers on the road.


Rachel went back and forth between crawling around the floor of the van, whining about how much distance existed between Boulder and our destination, which we refused to tell her, and driving hundreds of miles an hour in an effort to get wherever we were going much faster. She was genuinely bothered when cars didn’t move out of our way, which of course the stubborn Nebraska teenagers were reluctant to do. For those of you over 25 or so, it has been proven that placing groups of teenagers near each other is like sticking two magnets’ north ends together; there is a natural, inexplicable tension in the air and both sides become defensive. So we and the other teenagers eyed each other suspiciously for the majority of central Nebraska, until we ran out of gas and they didn’t, which gave us some separation.


Baker’s average interstate speed was a good 20 mph lower than his frontage road speed, which caused some of that good ol’ teenage tension between him and the rest of the car, except Alex who is immune because she is 45 years old. Baker was incredibly sure that there were police waiting specifically for him, so he followed speed laws religiously and made us stop taking shots off the dashboard.


Alex, when driving, continued her normal pattern of not really paying attention to the speedometer, assuming any speed matter would resolve itself. She also refused, for the duration of the trip, to use side view mirrors, which meant that for the half hour before switching lanes she would be turned about 150 degrees from forward, watching the road behind us.


I drove as I pleased, because I realized that as the writer of Day 15 I would be immune to criticism. So we hit Omaha, which was our original destination, around 4:00 p.m. and decided to keep going to Des Moines. We got there at 8:00, ate dinner and experienced teenage friction with a group of locals skateboarding around the drive-thru hamburger joint, and finally admitted out loud that we planned to go to Chicago. We drove over the Mississippi on the way, and we do consider ourselves bicoastal, if you consider the Mississippi a coast.


We pressed on eastward through Illinois, stopping at the Illinois welcome center to switch drivers on a deserted country road. We entered Chicago from the south and would have breathed a sigh of relief but construction on I-55 means that the highway is down to "two" lanes, which together are one-and-a-half car widths. So we had some frequent "truck-and-wall, truck-and-wall" incidents, but eventually we emerged safely onto Lake Shore Drive, which we exited at Jackson to take our photograph in front of the Art Institute at the beginning of Route 66. We parked on Adams (2:00 a.m. is one of the six hours per day in which you may legally park there), crossed Michigan Avenue and posed like tourists by the lions, which we realized were the first photographs we had taken since we touched the ocean in Santa Monica.


Exhilarated by our late-night arrival into Chicago, we drove happily to my house, unpacked nothing, threw ourselves a welcome-home party, ate a 4:00 a.m. snack at the Wiener Circle, went outside at 5:10, got thousands of mosquito bites, went inside at 5:17 and fell asleep as the sun rose.